Durban - The number of learners who are the victims of sexual or physical assault by teachers is on the rise, a recent parliamentary reply to questions by the Democratic Alliance revealed. According to the reply by KwaZulu-Natal education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana, 20 sexual assault cases and 30 physical assault cases were recorded in the province during 2016/17 financial year.The number has gone up by 33 sexual and 22 physical assault cases recorded during 2017/18.The same reply revealed that 231 learners were referred for counselling to date. Rishigen Viranna, DA provincial spokesperson for education said his party remained concerned by "under-reporting" of violence in schools as principals attempted to protect perpetrators or their school's reputation. "One case of sexual or physical abuse of a learner by a teacher is one too many. This information points directly to our young people being failed on so many levels. Our schools should be a place of learning and safety, yet it appears that criminality is endemic with a never-ending stream of reports of abuse from what must be described as a minority of teachers," Viranna said. He said last week a KZN high school teacher was reported to have impregnated five learners from different schools in the Manguzi area during the last five years. "While the DA welcomes reports that the South African Council for Educators (SACE) has deployed a special team to investigate the allegations, the question is - Why did the Department of Education and SACE only react after five learners were pregnant? The DA acknowledges the often extremely difficult conditions that educators are working under. We also acknowledge that many have the best interests of learners at heart and it is extremely alarming to hear of such cases," he said. The same reply also confirms that 16 KZN teachers were also attacked or verbally abused at schools in various parts of the province. The KZN’s Education Department has failed in its duty to protect both learners and teachers and maintain proper discipline within our schools, Viranna said. He called for the filling of security guard positions at schools to protect both learners and educators from crime; the development of an educator sex offenders list that both schools and the department can check educators references against so that "province-jumping" is avoided; the swift suspension and disciplinary procedures against accused educators and learners; and programmes to educate parents and communities when it comes to teaching their children discipline and the power of education in creating future opportunities. Josina Baikanyo from SACE said she would reply only to emailed questions. Daily News