The roofs and doors of the public toilets at Umbilo Motor Licensing Bureau are on the verge of collapse - and anyone who enters is at risk of severe injury. A massive tree collapsed during the storm late last year, destroying the roofs of the main building and the toilets. It also wrecked the fence. The public toilets and most of the roofs still have gaping holes, and no doors, leaving users completely exposed and at risk of injury. There are no warning signs or alternative toilets for use. Staff toilets are in the main building. After a trip to the toilet, a social worker from Pietermaritzburg, who had queued for an hour, returned disgusted, saying it was not a toilet but a “hole in a veld”. “We sit here all day; what facilities will we use? We could easily be bitten by a snake.” She said the building contravened several health and safety standards and a proper risk assessment was needed. Apart from the crumbling toilets, she said having one door to enter and exit the main building was equally dangerous in an emergency. Durban resident Avi Peters said going to the toilet under the open sky made women an easy target for rapists and peeping Toms. “It’s disgusting - we pay taxes and they can’t even provide us with a safe place to pee. It’s Durban’s own toilet scandal,” she said, referring to other provinces where toilets were built in open fields, giving users no privacy. The KwaZulu-Natal Transport Department said a tender process was under way to ensure the facility was fixed as soon as possible. Spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said although the building was owned by the Public Works Department, use and maintenance was shared by the Transport Department and Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, which had fixed the roof of the main building. The Transport Department said it had called on Public Works to expedite the tender process so that repairs and further maintenance could take place. Further security enhancements were also on the cards, Ncalane said. Apart from the storm damage, the bureau has been the target of several attacks over the past few months. Ncalane said earlier this year, thieves broke in and stole money, prompting the Transport Department to beef up security and call for more police patrols. However, despite security upgrades, thieves returned in September and allegedly used an explosive device to open a safe. Ncalane said they did not get their hands on any cash, but destroyed computers, telephone lines and other infrastructure, forcing the offices to close for two weeks. The repairs now needed would be done and security - again - improved. However, the Transport Department had already identified a site and approved plans for a new licensing bureau to replace the Umbilo centre. Details would be released later. Daily News