eThekwini municipal manager Sipho Nzuza has demanded answers from management. “We have children who are currently busy with exams. They rely on these buses to be ferried to schools. “There are also pensioners, who with their meagre income buy coupons to be transported by buses to destinations such as hospitals and doctors and so forth. “If this service is not available, they are compelled to fork out money to catch taxis. If they do not have it, they miss their appointments,” Nzuza said. It is the second time this year the depots’ diesel pumps have run dry. The first occasion was in March, because of payment issues. The buses have been grounded more than five times since August 2015 because of diesel shortages. Durban Transport is run by Tansnat, which is owned by Mandla Gcaba, former president Jacob Zuma’s nephew, on a contract basis. A resident from Newlands East, who asked not to be named, said she had to use ride-sharing taxi Uber to get to work. “I work in Durban North, so I take the uMhlanga Rocks bus, but this week there hasn’t been a bus. We were told there is no diesel,” she said. “If I had to take a taxi I would be late because I would have to go to the market and then take a taxi to Durban North. I had to use Uber, which costs me R85 as opposed to R9 on the bus.” Tansnat and the municipality apologised to affected commuters. “We had trouble with the delivery of diesel to the depots. This does not mean that we have no money,” said Fanie Joubert, chief operating officer. He said Ntuzuma and uMlazi were the most affected depots, but diesel was subsequently delivered to uMlazi and Transat was promised that a delivery would also be made to Ntuzuma. “There is red tape, and sometimes it causes problems. All payments have to be approved by the auditors, city manager and the owner of the company. If there is a hold-up during this time span, then payment will not be released,” he said. Joubert said he did not know what went wrong in the current instance, but the company would investigate to ensure it does not have the same problem in future. Daily News