Durban-  The Association of  Funakoshi Shotokan Karate of South Africa ( AFSKSA) participated in the 20th FSKA World Karate Tournament held in the city of  Almada, Portugal between the 25  and 28 October 2018. The team are expected to arrive back in Durban on Saturday. It was a gruelling tournament with over 16 countries and 800 karatekas competing said Chief instructor and President of AFSKSA Kyoshi Selvan Govender. The karate association ended the tournament in style by clinching gold in the boys  11 to 12 years open team Kumite division. Brothers Pranaam and Vardhan Maharaj together with Naeem Moola represented AFSKSA at the tournament. They competed against 16 teams and eventually defeated a very strong Ukraine team to clinch the sought after Gold Cup and gold medals in the final. "It is always an outstanding achievement to win gold in a European country," Govender said. Vardhan Raychand Maharaj was placed 3rd in his Kata division and  Arya Singh,9,  was placed 3rd in her Kumite division. Ray Maharaj, one of the parents, said the boys were grateful to their mentor Govender and also to their Head Coach Sensei Clinton Govender, Denver Subramoney and Sensei Aldin Govender who had spent endless hours training them. "A tournament of this magnitude always requires months of training and perseverance all of which would not have been possible had it not been for the determination of these young boys accompanied by the strenuous training sessions in the run-up to the competition," Maharaj said. Govender said he had eight students from KwaZulu-Natal and one from Gauteng. On the road to success, Govender said they beat two teams from Portugal, a team from England and won against Ukraine in the final. Newlands East resident Cher Eksteen, mother of Naeem Moola, said they were over the moon and the training had paid off. Moola attends Ferndale Primary School. "It was seven months of intense training. Early mornings, late nights! Training some weeks 6 days a week and tournament on a Sunday. It was hectic but well worth it!" Moola trained on Tuesday and Thursday at the Port of Natal School, Monday and Wednesday in Newlands West and Friday Nights at Get Fit Wellness in Westville," Eksteen said. Daily News