Durban - Tourists visiting Durban's shores will have a whole range of activities they can choose from this festive season. Sihle Zikalala, the MEC for Economic Development and Tourism and Durban Mayor, Zandile Gumede walked in a tourists' shoes on Thursday when they explored the city at the launch of the KZN festive season plans. According to the city, tourists are in for a treat. And KZN's beaches will be the centre of where all the fun will take place. "Durban is ready for million of visitors that will be coming from all corners of the world. We are rolling out the red carpet for everyone who will be coming here this festive season," Gumede said. "This is the reason we have themed our campaign as 'Durban summer love'," she said. Gumede said Durban's tourists have generated over R19.7 billion which has helped in providing at least 41 000 jobs. During the walkabout along the promenade, Zikalala and Gumede visited two lifeguard towers to find out how preparations were going for the festive season. Wanda Mbutho, the senior lifeguard at Bay of Plenty, said they were fit and ready. He said you cannot be a lifeguard if you are not fit. He also voiced his concerns about beachgoers not listening to them when they are on holiday. "We tell people to listen to us because we are here as their lifeguards. We are asking them to listen because we are in charge here and we know that they are the customers. We are asking them to listen to us," Mbutho said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video  Sihle Xaba, a senior lifeguard at North Beach said each beach has eight lifeguards and during the festive season, they work as early as 4am because some beachgoers camp along the beach. The early risers started their day at Wilson's Wharf along Margaret Mncadi Avenue (Victoria Embankment) with a boat cruise to North Beach.Along for the ride was KwaZulu-Natal Sharks Board who were set to show the media the installation and servicing of shark nets, which is one of the things tourists can look forward to, but rough seas led the mission to be aborted. However, those with an aerial view got to see the action. Daily News