Durban - A brazen gang of armed robbers tried to hold up three homes in the Durban North area before being confronted by armed security guards. The gang had been committing a spate of robberies in the Durban area using a white Mercedes Benz and notably carrying high powered rifles. On Tuesday afternoon the gang struck first in Windsor Avenue, Umhlanga Ridge.  Kyle Van Reenen, Marshall Security spokesperson, said five men carrying handguns and rifles derailed a driveway gate before storming the property. "A reaction officer from another security company was confronted with an AK47 wielding robber. The officer was ordered to retreat from the scene. Information as to the suspects getaway vehicle, a white Mercedez-Benz, was circulated to all Marshall Security members in the area."Reenen said. The gang made their way to Savell Avenue where they tried to hold up a woman in her home but were disturbed and fled. Minutes after this, Reenen said, a report of a house robbery in progress was received via one of their community Whatsapp groups. "Our members in the area immediately responded. On arrival on the scene, they were confronted by a man carrying an AK47 assault rifle. He opened fire on our team. In defence of their lives our team members returned fire. "he said. Other members of the gang came out of the building carrying an R5 rifle and pistols. In the exchange of bullets, the gunmen carrying the AK 47 rifle died on the scene. The others got into the Mercedes and fled. "The homeowners who were at home at the time had been confined to a bedroom. Although considerably shaken up, they did not sustain any physical injuries in the ordeal," he said.  The vehicle was later found abandoned in the Redhill cemetery grounds. The body of a man was found on the back seat with gunshot wounds.  Police found a large amount of jewellery, televisions, housebreaking implements, as well as a firearm and live ammunition, were recovered in the vehicle." Reenen said. The suspects are believed to be linked to a spate of serious violent crimes throughout the greater Durban area of late. Reenen said the Mercedes-Benz was confirmed to have been sought by the police.  None of the security officers injured in the ordeal. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said an AK47 rifle was recovered.  Another firearm was recovered inside the vehicle and the driver fled into the informal settlement nearby. Cases of robbery, attempted murder and inquest have been opened at the Durban North police station for investigation. Daily News 