The invitation sent on Wednesday said the exercise, to be conducted by Cuba-trained doctors, would mark the first time that the Cuban model of preventative health care would be on display in South Africa. “You are kindly invited to be part of an exciting community engagement programme where a number of KZN Cuba-trained doctors will descend on KwaXimba near Cato Ridge and go from house-to-house targeting particularly the elderly, to check on their health, ailments and general well-being,” reads the invite. This invitation was followed by another from the provincial ANC later the same day, stating that the party was embarking on “yet another” provincial executive committee (PEC) outreach programme where the ANC’s doctors’ volunteer corps would provide primary health-care services to the elderly at their homes in KwaXimba. Advocate Paul Hoffman, SC, director of the Institute for Accountability in Southern Africa, said the two invitations were evidence of “the blurring” of the distinction between party and state by the ANC. He said this “sleight of hand” was illegal and unconstitutional. “This ought to form the subject of a complaint to the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) and the ANC ought to desist forthwith. Have the ANC leaders learnt nothing from the evidence tumbling out of the ANC ‘smallanyana skeletons’ cupboard at the Zondo Commission? South Africa is a multiparty constitutional democracy under the rule of law,” Hoffman said. He said there was a clear separation of powers between the various branches of government and an exhortation to the public administration to execute the lawful policies of the government of the day. “Folding the state into a political party for the purpose of impressing voters is oppressive of opposition parties and is also unlawful. Voters are not stupid. They have worked out that they only see the ANC at election time and, for the rest of the cycle of elections, the looting continues,” he said. Hoffman said the ANC’s popularity was waning, and possibly this was why it was resorting to desperate measures of this kind. “If the taxpayer is paying for the Cuban doctors, then the media invite suggesting the ANC pays is also a fraudulent misrepresentation that may have criminal consequences,” he said. Political analyst Ralph Mathekga concurred that this was in contravention of the law and that such actions should be probed by the Public Protector. “If this indeed happened, the ANC has crossed the line. It is such conduct that the people are talking about where, towards the elections, the party starts bringing services to the people using state resources. These doctors’ education was funded by the state and therefore should not be used for political party benefit,” he said. The ANC, however, defended the programme and explained that it was not only Cuban-trained doctors that participated. Provincial spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said all 20 doctors who participated in the outreach programme volunteered their free time to provide services to the poor. She said it was dangerous for the public to rubbish efforts meant to bring services to the people. “It is just being opportunistic to say we used Cuban-trained doctors in this programme. In fact, it was a combination of locally-trained and Cuban-trained doctors who all gave their time out of goodwill. Every professional has a right to volunteer where they feel their involvement will bring relief to the people, so there is nothing untoward in their participation,” she said. Daily News