The matter came to the fore after Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP)workers stormed the city’s offices on Monday morning, demanding why their wages had not been paid last week, as was normally the case. This resulted in city treasurer Krish Kumar promising them that the city would pay them as soon as possible. The issue was addressed as part of the council’s agenda for the day. DA caucus leader Nicole Graham said there was an issue of people resorting to violence when they did not get what they wanted. “We need to confront this culture of storming the city hall head-on,” she said. Graham added it was setting a bad precedent, and referred to business forums which had previously stormed city meetings. Mayor Zandile Gumede said she was not aware of Monday’s incident. Kumar had on Monday told the Daily News that he had been “rattled” by the incident. He said the cause of workers not being paid on time was the city being told by the Auditor-General that it was inconsistently applying the approved pay rates. These incorrect rates had been rejected by Treasury. Monday’s incident was not the first time the city hall had been stormed by people with an axe to grind with city officials. MK vets earlier this year prevented city officials from leaving the building as they wanted their demands for jobs dealt with. In 2016, security guards stormed an exco meeting demanding that their pay grievances be dealt with. In the same year, 25 council-employed body-guards also stormed the city hall. Kumar added that the new pay rates to be used had been sent to the human resources department to do a “reasonability test” to ensure that they were within industry norms. The rates had passed the test, he said. “I feel for the workers out there.” As the matter was being discussed in the meeting, angry EPWP workers had staged another protest outside the city hall, but there was a strong metro police presence outside and the angry crowd could not get in as the doors to the building were locked. The workers told the Daily News that not getting their wages had resulted in some of their policies lapsing and their children going to school without eating anything. They said they would continue to protest at the city hall if they were not paid. This resulted in some exco members telling the angry crowd that the matter was being addressed. Daily News