Durban - Durban’s Suncoast Casino, Hotels & Entertainment has taken its already fun-filled and all-inclusive entertainment offering beyond the imaginable with the erection of the multipurpose events venue, The Globe at the end of October. The Globe is part of the historic R1.6 billion Suncoast  redevelopment, on the glorious stretch of beachfront in Durban known as the Golden Mile. Conceptualised and designed to transform the entertainment and event landscape of Durban with its chameleon like ability to adapt and morph. The towering dome reaches up to 15.8m and covers an interior floor space of 1994m 2 making it a comfortable space for 2200 people. An event organiser’s dream with limitless configuration layouts and custom built with an 8m x 10m stage, two big screens, state-of-the-art lighting and audio-visual sound equipment and sturdy interior trusses for the suspension of additional equipment. The appealing interiors make it in the same instant, both resourceful and breath-taking. It is purpose built to be adaptable for any event or function with the vaulted dome making it magnificent against the backdrop of the iconic Moses Mabhida Stadium. The versatility of The Globe means it’s perfect to host world-class expos, music concerts, comedy shows, festivals, sport screenings, ceremonies, car shows and the future of entertainment reality. The Globe is a pioneer in the industry and the opening show will have Bollywood fans star-struck with the first ever South African concert of heartthrob Indian playback singer, Krishna Kumar Kunnath, aka KK. The mesmerising Bollywood sensation will perform upbeat favourites and romantic crooning. The multifunction capability of The Globe will offer the city of Durban an alternative with the opportunity to attract local and international content boosting tourism opportunities for the city. “At the heart of the Suncoast  redevelopment has been the enhancement of the Durban beachfront entertainment experience into a premier destination for locals and visitors alike," said Suncoast  marketing manager, Louise Howell. She said The Globe is a portion of Suncoast's investment into entertainment and events for the enjoyment of the public. The Globe is easily accessible and conveniently located. Daily News