Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) spokesperson Prem Balram said 33-year-old Christopher Padayachee’s body was found by a municipal worker cleaning the park on Monday. Blue Security spokesperson Andreas Mathios said a member of the public also informed an armed response officer of the grisly find via a local community crime WhatsApp group. “Our officer found a body lying in a pool of blood. A bloodstained wooden baseball bat was found lying next to the body,” Mathios said. “The officers contained the scene to prevent curious onlookers from getting too close and contaminating it.” The park is opposite a busy petrol station and a primary school, along Grove End Drive and Batonmore Crescent. Padayachee’s family confirmed his identity at the Phoenix mortuary yesterday afternoon. He worked at a call centre in Durban and his parents had died when he was an infant. He was not married and grew up with his aunt and sisters in Phoenix. Padayachee’s close friend, Nana Singh, said he usually went to a local tavern in the Rainham area. On Sunday night, Padayachee was seen getting out of a car and being chased by a group of men into the park. “I got a call from his family in the morning. They wanted to know if Christopher was with me because he had not come home. I told them to check with the police because I had read that a body was found in Stanmore Park,” he said. Singh described Padayachee as a humble person who was known in the area. “He was badly beaten. It is devastating to learn that he died in this manner. I believe he was also robbed. The family are in shock and we hope to have his funeral tomorrow (today),” Singh said. Phoenix police are investigating a case of murder. Balram said the park where Padayachee was found had become home to many beggars and drug addicts. Lyndal Singh, eThekwini ward 50 councillor, said police had conducted frequent raids there to deter prostitution and loitering. “The person who did this did not think twice about committing a murder in an open space, which is a busy thoroughfare. Justice must be dealt. The eThekwini safer cities personnel and police have visited the park on a regular basis,” she said. Daily News