However, the State alleges when the teacher Nomasonto Magdalene Ngwenya, 67, objected to him using her car as a taxi, he paid a friend R500 to kill her. Nzama, 20, is on trial, accused of the Umlazi teacher’s murder, after her body was found in a badly decomposed state at a dump site in KwaNdengezi, near Pinetown, in February last year. He is charged with murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. According to the State’s case, the relationship between Nzama and Ngwenya soured because she refused to allow him to drive her car, a Nissan Tiida, which he used to operate a taxi business. It is alleged that his desperation to have the car to himself led to her murder. Nzama told the court he had nothing to do with the murder, putting the blame on his friend, Sfundo Brian Vilakazi, 17. Vilakazi had earlier confessed to strangling Ngwenya to death in her vehicle, and is serving a 12-year sentence for murder. The State alleges that Nzama conspired with Vilakazi, a school pupil at the time, to rob Ngwenya of her vehicle for a R500 fee. The two allegedly planned the murder a few days before. Vilakazi testified he accompanied Nzama to St James High School, where Ngwenya was a teacher, so they could travel to uMlazi with her. He said they first stopped at the house to pick up a television set, and Nzama then drove to a secluded area at Umlazi’s BB section and passed a rope to him. “He told me to tie the rope around her neck and I began strangling her. She tried to grab the rope, and Nzama stopped the car and held her hands until she stopped struggling. We realised that she was dead and I let go of the rope. We drove to a dump site in the KwaNdengezi area, where we dumped the body and covered it with waste,” said Vilakazi. He said Nzama had indicated to him that he was going to keep the car and they would use it for transport purposes, which he agreed to. Nzama disputed that the murder was planned and that he had actively taken part in it, but could not say why Vilakazi had strangled a woman he had met only that day, and then falsely implicated him. He denied promising to pay Vilakazi for his role in the murder.He said the incident happened quickly and since he was driving, by the time he managed to stop the car, Ngwenya was already dead. Nzama said he panicked when he realised the trouble he was in, and was convinced the only way out was to dispose of the body. “I continued to drive her vehicle around, but I never told myself that I could keep it permanently as it was clear that sooner or later the truth would come out,” he said. Ngwenya’s daughter, Nomfundo Ngwenya, earlier in the trial had told the court of the relationship Nzama had with their family from the time he was a pupil at her mother’s school. She said Ngwenya was fond of him and would let him stay in the outbuilding at their home. Prosecutor Krishen Shah said Ngwenya later became unhappy that Nzama would often disappear with her car and had required the assistance of a tracking company to trace the vehicle on three occasions. The case continues. Daily News