Durban - It is official, the Mzansi Super League (MSLT20) now has a song. The song, Che Bang Bang, was composed by famous South African DJ and radio personality, DJ Fresh. The song was launched on the DJ Fresh Breakfast Show on Metro FM on Tuesday morning shortly after the 7.30 am sports update. DJ Fresh said, “I was enthused when I heard about Mzansi Super League and a new T20 tournament that was proudly South African coming through, I got inspired to make a fast, and catchy tune that create a song with a beat that showcased our style.” He said there is also a dance element to the song. “Being that we are a country that is always innovative with starting new dance floor trends...we are a happy nation that loves to shake and perform coordinated dance moves,” he said.   Even some of the most successful T20 leagues in the world have theme songs or anthems, like the Indian Premier League and the Caribbean Super League. Wait, there’s more... Cricket SA Acting Heading of Communications, Koketso Gaofetoge said the MSLT20 shake will also be revealed, promising to be the ultimate dance move this summer. “The whole idea is to have the world dancing and not just the traditional cricket fans,” Gaofetoge said. “Hopefully the fans will be switched on to the Mzansi Super League digital platforms to see this anthem being officially launched and also get their first snippets of the story behind ‘Che Bang Bang’.” MSLT20 broadcaster is also thrilled about the song. Neo Momodu, SABC spokesperson, said these are exciting times on South Africa’s sporting landscape since the kickoff of the Mzansi Super League. “Our promise to all our audiences was to make the game of cricket accessible to all. Cricket is a fun sport that creates new friendships and everlasting memories. The creation of the Mzansi Super League theme song in partnership with DJ Fresh is part of our strategy of creating a tune aligned to the hottest sporting event this summer and that will motivate all South Africans to get behind the event. ‘Che Bang Bang’, the official theme song, will be playlisted across all our SABC Radio stations for our audiences to enjoy,” Momodu said. Daily News