This is according to Denzil Bazley, who has been fighting for the municipality to clean up its act after a number of complaints were made by community members to the city about the dirty water that was being pumped into the uMhlatuzana River from the plant. Bazley said he believed the change was a result of community and media pressure on the municipality to make sure that the plant was compliant. Earlier this month, the Daily News reported that the water quality at the treatment plant had become dangerous, with tests showing that E.coli was nearly 400 times over the legal limit. Bazley was concerned that people in lower-lying areas like Tshelimnyama and Ekukhanyeni, near Pinetown, would be severely affected by the water, which they used for everyday needs. He said the plant had not been operating at capacity and the discharged water had a dirty colour which was first noticed by mountain bikers at Giba Gorge, who raised the alarm. The recent improvement in the water quality was a welcome change. “The plant is running as well as it can,” Bazley said. He could smell chlorine in the water, which meant that it was being treated. Bazely, a mechanical engineer who used to be a consultant at the plant and helped with its maintenance between 1997 and 2008, said there were still challenges. One of these was that restaurants and supermarkets in the area were polluting the water with discarded fats and oils, something the municipality needed to tackle. He said although the situation had improved, they would not rest on their laurels and would keep a keen eye on the situation. They would also look at other treatment plants in the city not operating at full capacity. Other lasting solutions were to increase the size of the plant or redirect sewage to the uMhlatuzana Waste Water Treatment Works in Chatsworth, which has greater capacity, he said. Msawakhe Mayisela, eThekwini municipality spokesperson, said they were happy the matter was being dealt with. “We always pull out all the stops and deal with the problem.” Mayisela appealed to eThekwini residents to partner with them in solving issues that affect the municipality, and to provide constructive criticism. Daily News