Testifying in the trial of three men charged with cannibalism in Estcourt, Shabalala described the search at the residence of Nino Mbatha in August last year. Mbatha, Lungisani Magubane and Khayelihle Lamula are accused of murder and contravening the Human Tissue Act. A fourth accused, Doctor Sithole, died in prison this year. During his testimony, Shabalala said this was the first time he had dealt with such a case. He said Mbatha, who sparked off the investigation by walking into a police station with a human hand and foot, had shown police where the body parts of Zanele Hlatshwayo, who had been missing, were. When they arrived at the residence, Shabalala entered the room with his colleague, Constable Ndumiso Ntshalintshali. Mbatha then showed them a dish that held human ears, a jaw and shoulders. Shabalala added that they also saw a bucket with intestines in it. He said it was difficult to not remember the details of the event as he had been shocked. This was not the only surprise that awaited him. While the men were in a police holding cell, Mbatha and Magubane got into a loud argument. Shabalala said Magubane had told Mbatha to speak the truth and say that it was not he who had killed Hlatshwayo. Mbatha had retorted that it was Magubane who had been holding Hlatshwayo’s legs when she was being killed. Shabalala said Magubane had also told Mbatha that they should have had sex with Hlatshwayo before and after they cut her up. The policeman said the men were about two metres away from where he was and he could hear them clearly through the iron burglar guards that separated them. In addition, they had been arguing loudly and pointing fingers at each other. During cross-examination, defence advocate Diane Franklin, who is representing Mbatha, said he denied knowing Magubane and that the argument had occurred. “That is a lie,” Shabalala responded. He denied Magubane’s assertion that police had kicked down the door to the room, rushed in, forced him to the floor and handcuffed him. Shabalala also denied that he had slapped, kicked and hit Magubane with an animal horn, making him dizzy. The trial has been set down until mid-December.