Durban -  On the next episode of African Voices, CNN International meets Gregory Darroll, a designer and illustrator from Durban in South Africa. The programme learns how Darroll has turned his love for cartoons and design into a successful creative agency. Darroll fondly remembers his childhood growing up in Durban and tells CNN about the origins of his work. “I remember being like five and just drawing constantly. I think in the back of my mind it didn't really click that it would be a career… In terms of inspiration, it tends to come from all over the place.  A lot of the work that I do is inspired by what I grew up loving.  So, a lot of nostalgic references, pop culture, tend to creep into the work that I do.” After studying graphic design at the Durban University of Technology, Darroll worked at a company where he created vibrant, eye-catching designs and animations for brands, agencies and apps around the world. While at school, Darroll realised he could turn his passion into a career, as he explains, “Instead of it being a hobby, I realised I could make a living out of this… After a few projects and experiencing interest, and a few sales on personal projects, you start to realise that putting your head down and making it happen can definitely work as a solid form of income.” Further to working at several creative agencies in Durban, Darroll eventually opened his own studio in early 2017.  He tells African Voices about the benefits of being his own boss: “I think one of the highlights for me every day is not being able to expect what's going to be in my inbox the next day or being able to have the flexibility to pop in and out of the studio whenever I need to, whenever I want.” Darroll informs CNN about the role interpretation has in his work. He explains: “Interpretation has always been and will always be a massive part of my work. Taking a simple shape or a simple form and transforming it into something that's instantly recognisable, one of a kind obviously, and full of expression.  That for me is the beauty of being able to illustrate, draw, and create… If you're creating something you love, they'll be other people that love it at the same time.” Gregory Darroll’s wife Nikki reveals the passion her husband has for drawing: “He's obviously working on jobs for clients, but he still has a passion to draw.  So, at home in the evenings, sitting on [the] couch with the iPad, literally drawing his little passion projects that he feels strongly about.  It's almost his release from the work day, which is still drawing and still illustrating, which is quite cool.” For Darroll, passion can be defined by determination and the work that nobody sees: “For any creator, it takes so much time to not only learn the skills that are valuable in the industry, but also to figure out if this really is something you want to spend every day doing… people can say that they're passionate about something but if you are willing to grind for hours on a project that nobody else is going to see… I think that defines loving something or being passionate about something.  Somebody said passion is working when nobody's looking and I definitely think it rings true.” African Voices is sponsored by Globacom African Voices airs Friday 16th November at 12h30 SAST on CNN International. Saturday 17th November at 01h30 SAST, 08h00 SAST and 17h30 SAST Sunday 18th November at 01h30 SAST, 05h30 SAST and 21h00 SAST Monday 19th November at 06h00 SAST Tuesday 20th November at 11h30 SAST Daily News