This was what Constable Ndumiso Ryan Ntshalintshali told the Pietermaritzburg High Court he had heard during an argument in the police holding cells between two of the three men charged in the Estcourt cannibalism trial. The three accused - traditional healer Nino Mbatha, Lungisani Magubane and Khayelihle Lamula - were linked to body parts discovered after Mbatha allegedly walked into the Estcourt police station with a pink school bag, from which he pulled out a human hand and a foot. The body parts were later identified as being that of a missing woman, Zanele Hlatshwayo. A fourth accused in the matter, Doctor Sithole, died in prison this year. Ntshalintshali, in his evidence in chief on Tuesday, said Mbatha had said he wanted police to help him as he was being held against his will and being forced to eat human flesh in the Sgodlweni area in Estcourt. During Ntshalintshali’s cross-examination, Mbatha’s defence advocate, Diane Franklin, said he denied being the person who brought the bag with the body parts to the police station. “He agrees that he came to the police station to ask for help, but beyond that point he disagrees with everything you told the court," she said. Franklin said Mbatha had gone to the police to get help with regards to his neighbour, Mdumiseni Mchunu, who sold alcohol and who refused to give him his change. “He went to buy a beer with R100, but Mchunu had no change. He took the beer and left. He went back a second time with another R100 to buy another beer and Mchunu still had no change. "At this stage, Mchunu refused to give him his change and an argument broke out between the two and Mchunu told him to leave and he doesn't want to see him again,” she said. Franklin said Mbatha wanted his money back, and that is why he went to the police station. She said Mbatha refutes telling the police he was tired of eating human flesh. Franklin also told the court that her argument would be that any evidence collected from the house police allege Mbatha led them to, where he showed them more body parts, is inadmissible. She said one of two other detectives who were in the room after Ntshalintshali left it with Mbatha said the room was in “total disarray”. Franklin, cross-examining Ntshalintshali using a photo album of the room, said Mbatha only recognised a book with his drawings in it; apart from that, he did not recognise anything. She said her instructions from Mbatha were that he never walked into the police station with the bag with a human hand and foot, and it was in fact Sithole, the dead accused, who did. “He says (it was) at the police community service centre that he saw Sithole arrive with the police and the bag,” she said. State advocate Wendy Greef said the body parts found were confirmed to be those of Hlatshwayo. This was done through DNA collected from her mother, Philisiwe Hlatshwayo. Greef said a post-mortem was unable to determine the cause of death because of extensive dismemberment. Investigating officer Nhlanhla Shabalala began leading his evidence yesterday; he is expected to continue today. The trial has been set down until mid-December. Hlatshwayo’s relatives sat at the back of an otherwise empty courtroom during the proceedings. Daily News