Durban - The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd (Sanral) has predicted that peak traffic on national roads could start earlier than usual because of December and January public holidays as well as public schools closing on December 12 and open a week after the first of January. In a statement, Sanral said traffic will begin to pick up in the week of school closures and traffic volumes will become really heavy from Friday December 14, which is the beginning of a long weekend and when the building industry closes for the festive season. Christmas falls on a Tuesday this year, which means traffic might start peaking the Friday before. “The end of the holiday period is also somewhat different: New Year’ Day is on a Tuesday and so is the day public schools reopen on January 8. This may mean peak traffic on the Mondays before,” the statement said. “The N3 freeway between Gauteng and the KwaZulu-Natal coastal resorts is in good condition and travellers will not experience any delays caused by roadworks during the coming festive season,” it continued. Vusi Mona, Sanral communication manager said, road conditions are good and holiday-makers can expect trouble-free journeys throughout the route barring unforeseen traffic incidents or adverse weather conditions. Mona also called on road users to keep road safety in mind when they take to the country’s roads during the festive season. “The main message is to remember that a road is a shared space and that you should be respectful towards your fellow road users,” he said. He said speed limits are clearly indicated on the 22 214km of roads managed by Sanral in all nine provinces. “These are maximum limits and drivers should adjust their speed according to conditions such as rain or visibility,” he said. “Speeding and driving under the influence of alcohol are some of the major causes of road crashes – road users should heed the call to #KnowYourWhoa#Don’tDrink&Drive.” “Road user behaviour contributes a lot to road crashes and we appeal to motorists to respect the rules of the road and to also ensure their vehicles are roadworthy,” he continued. Motorists can use the Sanral App which helps them with information about road conditions, traffic congestion and incidents on the road and enables motorists to plan their journeys in advance. Incidents should be reported to the South African Police Services (10111), the National Traffic Call Centre (NTCC) on 012 665 6075 or to the N3 route patrol customer care line on 0800 203 950. Daily News