Durban - The triggerman behind the assassination of Durban petrol station owner, Kidesh Ramjettan told the Durban Regional Court that he committed the crime because he needed money to bury his aunt. Ayanda Shezi, 34, has pleaded guilty to the murder of Ramjettan who was gunned down outside his petrol station in Rossburgh earlier this year. He said he took up the contract killing as he had no money and needed to bury his aunt. Two others implicated in the murder, Menziwa Mdaka and Zakhele Dubazane are in Westville prison until their next appearance on November 22, when a date for a bail application will be set. The court has heard the mastermind had offered the men R30 000 to kill Ranjettan. Legal aid lawyer Sanjeev Jaglall, who is representing Shezi told the court that his client had a two-month-old baby in Gauteng and two children being cared for by his sister in Ulundi which he was trying to support financially. While awaiting trial Jaglall said Shezi had enough time to think about his crime. He said that him pleading guilty was proof that he felt remorse for his role in the crime.guilty. Shezi admitted in court that he overheard Menziwa say that Ramjettan was a witness in a truck hijacking incident. Jaglall said his client feared for his life now that he has brought the plot of the murder into the spotlight and named the mastermind behind the killing. Shezi felt the mastermind was being protected by police. Ramjettan's brother, Umesh Balraj who took the stand in aggravation of sentence said his brother's death was psychologically and emotionally stressful. Ramjettan was described as the link in the family who was full of life and jovial. He has a two-year-old baby and wife. He said his loss will not be forgotten and the family find it difficult to sleep at night especially his parents. The court that Ramjettan's staff at the petrol station as well as family members have been sent for counselling. The parents were also on antidepressants to help them overcome their grief. Since the murder, the family now see life differently and do not trust anyone, the court was told. Daily News