It is alleged that on Thursday the city’s land invasion unit stormed shacks that were illegally built in an attempt to evict the land grabbers. At some point some of the dwellings caught fire. This resulted in a protest that lasted throughout the night. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed that 24 people including women were arrested. She said they were expected to appear in court for bail applications tomorrow. This was confirmed by the leader of the group, Smanga Mkhize. “We could not fold our arms while they destroyed our shacks. Our belongings including groceries and clothing were burnt,” he said. Mkhize alleged that Landu Tshazi, who was part of their group, was shot in the foot during the confrontation. He was recovering at home. Ayanda Mdluli, a concerned resident of Mary Thiphe Street, said she was happy when she first moved to the suburb. But now she has asked her husband to consider selling their house because she fears for the safety of her family. Recalling an incident that happened a few days ago, Mdluli said she was awoken in the middle of the night by a rowdy crowd who chopped a tree outside their gate. “We did not know what was happening but saw a group cutting hedges outside our homes. We were stuck for hours. We could not move out, the road was full of debris,” Mdluli said. She pointed to a tree which had its branches hacked off. Mdluli, who works as a nurse at the Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital, said the group had also destroyed a water meter. She said when the protest moved outside their house the family called both the Metro Police and the SAPS. However, when the police arrived they failed to stop the group. She said the chaos continued until dawn. The violent protest began on Wednesday.  She urged the authorities to act decisively. Other residents shared similar views. One resident said he had no issue living alongside the informal dwellers but they should behave and respect others. “I do not want to sell my property but when they start getting violent, selling could be an option,” he said. Strewn garbage, concrete poles, burning logs and loose wires from street lights were visible as a trail of destruction could be seen on both Mary Thiphe Street and Vusi Mzimela Road in Mayville near the Cato Manor police station. EThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela denied allegations that shacks were torched by members of the Land Invasion Unit. He said those who had proof of this should report the matter to the police. He said the city responded after land earmarked for a housing development was invaded. He added that during the operation, members of the community became volatile and attempted to attack officials. He said the city had noted the sharp increase in the number of illegal land invasions. “We reiterate that we will do everything in our power to protect the rights of residents and businesses within the ambit of the law,” he said. Mayisela said land was a scarce resource and the municipality had an obligation to protect and preserve it with the purpose of utilising it to unlock future development.