This is according to eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer, who was speaking at a community meeting at Overport Secondary School. She said the escalating crime rate was a national issue, and that it was not possible to have police on every street. “All of us should channel our anger into action,” Peer said. The anger should, however, not degenerate into vigilantism. Religious leaders and community activists implored the community to take action and unite in the fight against crime. Community activist Mohammed Ismail, the general secretary of the Mayville Community Policing Forum, said activism was “dying very quickly”. Ismail, also a senior member of eThekwini Secure, said there were not enough youth involved in activities to keep communities safe. He noted that a community member who was more than 70 years old was involved in patrols to keep the area safe. He said people did not have to conduct foot patrols to make a meaningful contribution in the area; there were other ways to do this, and one only had to sacrifice about three hours a week to help keep communities safe. It was not only the youth who needed to be proactive, but communities in general needed to change their attitudes, Ismail said. “We have a lot of complaining. We need to change from that style,” he said. Ismail said people should know their neighbours and be more vigilant. However, this did not mean becoming paranoid, he said. Ismail also warned people to be vigilant and to verify members on WhatsApp groups because criminals sometimes infiltrated these to learn what was happening in areas they targeted. Rajiv Jayanath, the chairperson of the Greenwood Park Community Policing Forum, said the usual problem was that a small group of hard-working people were active in the community, and others just reaping the benefits. He said people were mainly focused on securing their own houses and did not understand that a safe home could only be achieved through a secure neighbourhood. Jayanath said they had a vibrant youth desk led by Teddy Mngadi that was helping to fight crime in the area. Daily News