The results are essential for Stanley Maistry, 73, as they could help secure his granddaughters’ future. His daughter, Daynathie “Dianne” Naidoo, 44, never regained consciousness after an operation to remove a blood clot on her brain in July 2017. Her eldest daughter, Bavisha, 21, works part-time and has hopes of furthering her education. Her sister, Thirusha, is still in school and also hopes to study further. But neither can pay for tertiary studies without their mother’s insurance payout, which will not be released without the post-mortem report. Naidoo, a SAPS captain at Chatsworth Police Station, was admitted to Chatsmed Hospital in June 2017 with swollen feet and a fever, and was treated for thyroid problems. After lying in hospital for a few days, a doctor said she would be discharged soon. However, on July 1, her family was told she was in intensive care after having had a seizure. Days later they discovered she had a blood clot on her brain and she was transferred to St Augustine’s Hospital, in Glenwood, Durban. The clot was drained, but she never regained consciousness after the surgery and died on July 12. Maistry does everything he can for his grandchildren with his salary from part-time work, but their lives have been on hold since Naidoo’s death. “I have been pushed from pillar to post to get her post-mortem results. Everything is on hold and we can’t find closure. The bond is held by a bank - we can’t transfer her property - and all insurance payouts have been withheld. “Fifteen months have gone by and still nothing has been done,” he said. Maistry said his granddaughters were living with him in Chatsworth while his daughter’s house stands empty and her car stands idle. He said his daughter had tenants who paid R2000 rent a month, but they stopped paying after she died and later moved out, leaving behind a high electricity bill. “The insurance payout is not for me; it’s for my grandchildren. I’m old and I can’t take the money to my grave,” he said. Maistry said the investigating officer handling the matter - an inquest docket had been opened - said he was waiting for the results to come from Pretoria. The insurance broker handling his granddaughters’ claim was also trying to help him. “If there was an unnatural death we need the post-mortem report to proceed with the claim,” he said. “I also call the investigating officer regularly, but he is still waiting for the report.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said an inquest docket was being investigated by Umbilo police who were still waiting for post-mortem results to indicate the cause of death. Daily News