Durban - Cape Town open water swimmer Andrew Chin has taken to the water once again – this time in KZN - to raise awareness around the poor state of our country’s rivers and to highlight the urgent need to restore them. This is the fifth event of the “Swim for Rivers” extreme swimming challenge that was launched by the Capetonian in 2015. The challenge involves athletes attempting to swim a distance of 100 to 350km in a major river in each of South Africa’s nine provinces. Chin set off on Tuesday 20 November from the source of the Mtamvuna River in Harding district, near Kokstad. Over a period of 10 days he will try to cover approximately 165km of the river from source to sea, swimming for approximately 5 – 10 hours per day. The 2018 challenge will end at the wide river mouth just south of Port Edward on Friday 30 November. Chin is being supported by fellow swimmer David Taitz who is driving the support vehicle and assisting with safety and logistical arrangements along the way. The Mtamvuna River forms the border between the KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape provinces and has a catchment area of 1,553 km². Chin is expecting to experience a relatively clean river near the source but does anticipate encountering some pollution around riverside towns and as he approaches the mouth of the river. Low water levels will see him walking the first 30-50km until the confluence of the river with several streams along its course will increase the flow and allow for swimming. As with previous swims Chin plans to connect with community members as well as learners at local schools along the way, where he will be conducting short talks on the importance of our rivers and the role that everyone needs to play in looking after them. He also hopes the swim will spark debate about what the relevant authorities and public can and should be doing to manage and protect our rivers. Growing up on a Free State farm, Chin learned the value of water - and its impact on survival - at a young age. Early in his career he worked in rural development, where he experienced, first hand, filling up and carrying barrels to supply a project base camp with fresh water. This experience cemented his respect for water as a precious natural resource and ignited his passion to do something to raise critical awareness about the importance of river health. The scenery along the last 25km of the Mtamvuna River before the mouth includes spectacular gorges, and event organisers have extended an open invitation for local swimmers and paddlers to participate along in any stretch of the route. Follow Andrew Chin’s progress on the Facebook page: https://web.facebook.com/swimforrivers/ Daily News