There was controversy around a reported R56million being injected by the city into the event, which is scheduled for December 1. However, during a press briefing at the stadium, Nyovest, the Federation For Radical Economic Transformation (Ffret) and some of its affiliates - including the Amadelangokubona Business Forum - and artists said the city had not committed any money to the event at this stage. Having heard about the supposed R56m funding for the event, Amadelangokubona Business Forum confronted the city, demanding to know how this huge amount of money could be given to one artist while local artists and events organisers never got such large amounts. Joy Mbewana of the Ffret said: “We spoke to various senior officials including the city manager and discovered that the reports were inaccurate. We heard that there was a proposal to fund the event, but there was no commitment at this stage. We then said since no events organiser in Durban gets even R1m for an event, this amount would not be right.” Mbewana said during the talks with Nyovest’s team about how small businesses and artists should be involved in the event, it was agreed that the artist would plough 30% of whatever the city offered to local business. Musa Zondi, the president of Ffret, said it wanted the city to support the event “as it would benefit the black child”. “Our own emerging businesses will benefit. It is nonsense that you give us R100m, for example, while we know there is R4billion in the purse,” Zondi said. The group left the briefing to meet city officials regarding the funding of the looming event. It is not clear how reports of the R56m came about, but Nyovest said the amount was far higher than the actual budget for the event. He said he was tempted to come to Durban after being approached by a friend with information that the city was keen on his event. “It’s still in the negotiation phase - there is no decision yet. On our proposal we broke our budget down into four sections. We can’t tell the amount we proposed from the city because they might decide to take one section instead of others. “It is a concern, though, that there is no decision yet, because the day is closing in,” he said. Nyovest said use of the stadium would have been part of the city’s commitment in the deal. Phillip Sithole, deputy city manager of economic development and planning, said the city had investigated the rumours and discovered that they were just that. “We were happy with the proposal because it speaks to tourism. We had numerous meetings with them to ensure that local businesses benefited from the event.” Sithole said the feedback was fair and the city had requested that the group furnished officials with their agreement in a letter. “The city will support the event but there is no financial figure agreed upon - the assistance will be on a ‘needs basis’.” Daily News