However, these jet skis are now gathering dust as municipal lifeguards are on a go-slow, refusing to use the craft should a swimmer be drowning. The Daily News has learnt that the lifeguards have been on an unofficial go-slow from last Thursday, allegedly due to backpay not being paid since 2007 for the use of the craft. In addition to their salary, the lifeguards are apparently paid more for being able to use the jet skis. At the festive season launch last week, Mayor Zandile Gumede said 122 temporary lifeguards had been employed to complement the permanent staff. The municipality has denied refusing backpay to about 30 of its lifeguards for the use of power craft. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said any kind of strike action or go-slow by lifeguards would be against new legislation in terms of the Labour Relations Act, which deemed lifeguards essential services personnel. He said the city was unaware of the go-slow and added that back payments would be made next month or in January. “As indicated, the city is not aware of a go-slow. This will need to be investigated. If any rescue needs to be conducted and the staff do not deploy the necessary rescue craft, the management will call in other lifeguard personnel from an adjacent beach. “The necessary disciplinary action will be instituted if it is found that lifeguards have failed to undertake their responsibilities in terms of the Essential Services Act,” he said. One of the questions put to the city was the total amount of backpay owed to lifeguards. Mayisela said the amounts varied as this was dependent on the number of years of service of each life guard. “There are 36 lifeguards who are eligible. The relevant department put together a report to the relevant committee, and it has been approved. The lifeguards will receive their backpay,” he said. Mayisela said that before 2007, there was a clause in the lifeguards’ job description that covered payment for the use of power craft, but this point had subsequently been removed. “Subsequently, on realising the implications of the removal of the clause, the department has been working on getting it reinstated,” he said. “The payments are being processed through the HR Department, ready to be paid to the relevant staff in the December or January 2019 pay run at the latest.” Daily News