According to a report tabled, private assessors had evaluated the city hall, 75 Dr Langalibalele Street, Rennie House and the metro police headquarters. The office of the city manager had commissioned the city’s architecture department to appoint service providers to undertake the assessments of the buildings. Each building was assigned a team of consultants comprising of an architect, quantity surveyor, and electrical, mechanical and structural engineers to carry out the assessment, reads the report. The report noted that the city hall was designed and commissioned in a pre-information age and continued functionality in the current information age required significant construction work. The building’s electrical systems had been seriously affected by unco-ordinated construction works. Immediate interventions include electrical reticulation requiring a detailed review and installation. The current electrical installation is experiencing strain due to a patch-work approach to upgrades. The report adds that the structural engineer had asked for the timber sections of the roof to be evaluated to determine their structural integrity, adding that it is likely the entire roof structure is compromised by the presence of wood-eating insects. This would cost the city about R120m while the overall cost to have the structure in a perfect condition would be R322.5m. Number 75 Dr Langalibalele Street was condemned by the labour department in March last year. The building, which used to house more than 1000 municipal employees, would require R20.5m to fix as a short-term measure while a total overhaul would cost R197.8m. Labour inspectors found that the elevators were faulty; there was poor ventilation; unhealthy toilets; poor water quality; and no extraction systems in place. eThekwini employees had claimed that tap water was mixing with sewage and that employees had been trapped in the lifts for hours on several occasions. The city would also need R86.2m and R39m for the total overhaul of the metro police headquarters in Archie Gumede Road and Rennie House (Margaret Mncadi Avenue) respectively. Greg Evans, head of the eThekwini engineering unit, said not all the upgrades would be done immediately, but urgent interventions would receive priority. “The less urgent work will be done in a phased renovation schedule. The next step will be working closely with our finance colleagues regarding budget for a phased approach. Ageing infrastructure is an issue worldwide, not only in South Africa. Municipal buildings worldwide are too old,” Evans said. Krish Kumar, deputy city manager for finance, said renovations were often delayed as a result of the prioritisation of finances. “What often takes a back seat is infrastructure and maintenance. In Washington, DC and London you find the same thing with buildings having issues. The prestige of any city lies in the heritage of its buildings,” he said. The IFP called for the contracts to go on public tender and not be awarded through Section 36. DA councillor Heinz de Boer said the city hall was problematic due to its age, and asked for the total amount for the refurbishment of the buildings to be made public. Daily News