The trainee, at Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital, has since been barred from the facility, and the hospital’s management is investigating the social media post. It is not clear how long the man had worked at the hospital, and attempts to get comment from him on Tuesday were unsuccessful. The man posted on Facebook that his neighbour’s daughter had grown up - she is seven years old - and he had a desire to rape her. He posted a similar message about another neighbour’s 10-year-old child. Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo confirmed that the trainee was on Tuesay removed from the facility pending an investigation. “The trainee has made a series of offensive posts on social media. These included threats to rape his neighbours’ daughters, aged seven and 10. The posts sparked an outcry on social media, with numerous concerned Facebook users reporting them to the department,” Dhlomo said. He said as Health MEC and provincial chairperson of the Men’s Forum, which sought to motivate men to be protectors of families and society, he was compelled to take action after receiving the report about the threats. “We cannot be talking about the need to protect and nurture women and young girls on one hand, and on the other, have in our midst people who harbour such vile and reprehensible thoughts. Even if this person is not an employee of the department, we do not want him in the system,” he said. Childline KZN operations manager Adeshini Naicker said she was “appalled” to hear of the incident. “We applaud the decision that the KZN health department took to immediately suspend the employee. It really concerns us that amidst the everyday struggles of child protection agencies trying to keep our children safe, these types of comment emerge. Even more concerning is that this individual is employed in an environment frequented by young children - one where a child would ordinarily feel safe,” she said. Naicker said the incident sent out a strong message to parents and care- givers to be extremely vigilant about everyone their children came into contact with, no matter how brief or sporadic the interaction may be. “Predators will use any opportunity and means to try to make contact with or befriend their victims. “Parents need to be constantly educating their children about the dangers of engaging with individuals with whom they are not familiar, and at the same time children need to be encouraged to speak out about any person that makes them uncomfortable, no matter how close to home that person is,” she said. Bobbi Bear, an NGO advocating for the rights of sexually-abused children, was also outraged by the Facebook post and called for the Health Department and justice system to take the “hardest stance” against this kind of behaviour. It called for a thorough investigation into the intern’s past to be instituted. “Every day at Bobbi Bear we deal with children who have been raped and abused and who are trying to heal the trauma caused by the perpetrators. Something like this shows how deep the problem is in our society and how far we still have to go to overcome the issue of child abuse in the country,” Bobbi Bear spokesperson Bradley Downs said. He urged parents to talk to their children about online predators, and discuss risky online behaviour and healthy relationships. Parents should also reassure their children that they can be open and talk to them about anything, good or bad, he said. “Parents can monitor their children’s online behaviour with apps like Net Nanny or Webwatcher, or limit their access to online platforms. Make sure you check the security settings on their devices, too,” Downs said. Daily News