The suspension is the latest development in an acrimonious relationship between the two that has lasted for years. News of the suspension was confirmed to the Daily News by a source who has intimate knowledge of the workings of the organisation. The person, who asked not to be identified, said notice of the suspensions came last Friday via email, which said the entire board had been suspended with immediate effect, which meant that they could not go back to their offices. The email also said ASA would conduct an investigation and institute disciplinary proceedings against the board members. However, it did not say when the hearings would start and what charges the executive would face, the source said. In the meantime, an administrator would be appointed to run the day-to-day affairs of the organisation. The source said this was a welcome development as there had been many complaints about the provincial organisation from people within the athletics fraternity in KwaZulu-Natal. The Daily News contacted some of the board members, but they would not comment because there was an investigation in progress. KZNA has been mired in scandal for the past few years. The Daily News has previously reported that money amounting to millions was allegedly squandered by the organisation. The Daily News’s sister paper, The Mercury, reported in 2014 that the board had been suspended by ASA because of infighting. More recently, KZNA controversially went to the Pietermaritzburg High Court to stop the opening of the Msunduzi Athletics Stadium. Sello Mokoena, the president, had argued that proper procedures, which included getting the relevant permits, were not followed. This had jeopardised the opening of the Africa Athletics League. Mokoena, who made the application on behalf of KZNA, said the construction of the stadium had not been completed and posed a risk to athletes and the public. The news of the suspensions was welcomed by athletics clubs who hoped it would be the start of a new era in provincial athletics. Marc Allen, chairman of Hillcrest Villagers’ Athletic Club, said he was surprised at the latest developments. He said in his view the KZNA was not run well and his club therefore seldom asked for assistance from the organisation. “We have fought our own battles to try to make ends meet,” he said. Allen said he hoped this was not a “false dawn” and that there would now be real change within athletics in the province. Cliff Chinnasamy, chairperson of Formula 1 Bluff Meats Athletic Club, said the board’s suspension could be the best thing that could happen for athletics in the province. He said he had had a strained relationship with the organisation for the past few years because of administration problems which affected the running of his club. He said KZNA needed people with a sporting mind to run the organisation, who were driven to improve athletics, rather than being driven by money. ASA spokesman Sifiso Cele said he could not comment on whether the board was suspended. “However, should ASA have anything to announce or share on the topic, a media release will be issued.” Thabo Mofokeng, KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson for the Department of Sports and Recreation, said it had not been informed about the matter and was waiting for official communication from KZN Athletics and Athletics SA. Daily News