The pastor appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court for a bail application. Outside the court were two groups of people, those supporting the pastor and those supporting his alleged victims. During proceedings, prosecutor Sibongile Ngcobo said they opposed bail because it would undermine public order and peace if the pastor was released, and that he could intimidate and influence witnesses. During the proceedings, the pastor, who cannot be named as he has yet to plead, said he was confused by the charges. The charges stem from offences that allegedly started last year and continued until this month. Although the State has yet to finalise the charges, it is believed the alleged victims are members of his congregation, and include a minor. During examination by defence advocate Paul Jorgensen, the pastor said he was the breadwinner at home, with an unemployed wife and two young children that he looked after. These were not his only responsibilities, though. The man said he provided for many families in rural areas through his congregation, and for poor families who were members of his congregation, which had six branches. He said his stay in jail had already impacted on many of his commitments. Asked by Jorgensen whether he was willing to stop preaching if this was made part of his bail conditions, the pastor, whose church has about 2500 members, was at first hesitant, but reluctantly said he would stop. “Preaching is my life,” he said. The pastor, who looked nervous during the proceedings, said he had provided the police with an alternative address in Gingindlovu, where he would move should he be granted bail. “I doubt people will go to Gingindlovu to protest against me,” he said. The man, who is also a disc jockey on a community radio station, said he would plead not guilty to the charges. While the bail application was being heard, the pastor’s supporters and those of his alleged victims squared off outside the court. The pastor’s congregants sang gospel songs, while the opposing group, which comprised members of various political parties, sang Struggle songs. The matter was adjourned to next month. This case comes as Nigerian pastor Tim Omotoso and co-accused Lusanda Sulani 36 and Zukiswa Sitho 28, face charges ranging from human trafficking to sexual assault and rape. The trio are on trial in the Port Elizabeth High Court today. Some of the crimes allegedly took place at Omotoso’s home in uMhlanga. Daily News