The findings were made public on Tuesday in a press briefing in Gauteng. Commissioner Barbara Watson, who chaired the investigation, said the probe had made a number of damning findings that led to many people resigning because they refused to kowtow to the demands of harassers. Abuses uncovered included: * A perception of collusion between the SABC’s human resources (HR) department and senior managers to cover up for alleged perpetrators. * A fear of job loss by speaking out against abuses, lack of trust in HR, and the SABC’s inability to address gender-based violence. * None of the alleged perpetrators - all men - had ever been suspended or found guilty of sexual harassment. The commission found that leadership at the KZN offices failed to deal effectively with allegations. Lotus FM has had to deal with a number of scandals over the past few years, the latest being former traffic reporter Mishka Gounden taking the SABC to court for unfair dismissal, and taking on disc jockey Fahim Jamadar, who she believed leaked raunchy videos of her on social media. The Daily News’s sister paper, Post, reported last month that the station was once again mired in controversy after a manager was accused of being a sexual predator for telling young women to send him nude pictures of themselves for jobs. Former Lotus FM employee Vanessa Govender said she had been called by the commission to testify about her experiences at the radio station. She said she believed in the integrity of the commission. Lotus FM manager Alvin Pillay did not respond to a request for comment on the report. Now it appears the SABC’s top brass will be hauled before Parliament. Mziwamadoda Kalako, member of the portfolio committee on communications, said he wanted the broadcaster’s board and executives to explain the report. There were 17 cases lodged by victims and whistle-blowers, where 11 alleged perpetrators were interviewed; two “arrogantly” refused to appear before the commission. A victim, whom Watson said was repeatedly harassed from her first week at the SABC by a senior manager, fainted at work and had to be hospitalised because of stress. The woman and her husband, who also worked at the SABC at the time, were now divorced because of the trauma, Watson added. Kalako said the portfolio committee had yet to be briefed on the report. Recommendations are that the SABC should institute a structure outside HR to oversee the implementation of the report, including disciplining the alleged abusers, and a review of the broadcaster’s internal policies dealing with sexual harassment and assaults. SABC spokesperson Neo Momodu said group chief executive Madoda Mxakwe would present a detailed plan of action to the board. Daily News