“On arrival in the vicinity of Smidtshoek Farm, New Hanover, in the early hours of Saturday, January 6, 2018, the accused removed the deceased from the vehicle, threw her in a nearby sugar cane field, doused her with petrol and set her alight. He then fled the scene.” Carmen Nan Lee, mother of Siam, whose charred body was found in the Midlands sugar cane field, wants to keep the memory of her beloved daughter alive in a book she hopes to use as a therapeutic exercise to deal with her loss. Speaking on Thursday to the Daily News outside the Durban Magistrate’s Court, shortly after it was revealed during proceedings that her daughter was alive when she was set alight, Lee said writing a book would help her face the nightmare of losing her only child. The man accused of her abduction and subsequent murder cannot be named because he also has pending rape charges against him. He appeared briefly in court and was indicted to stand trial in the Durban High Court in March next year. The man walked into the packed courtroom with confidence before the proceedings started. He is currently on bail after his arrest in February in connection with Siam’s murder. According to the indictment, the man faces 16 charges, including murder, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, assault, intimidation, kidnapping, unlawful possession of ammunition and fraud. Lee said she was emotional because she had learnt for the first time that her daughter was alive when set alight. She said she had dreaded the day when she would hear the gruesome details of her daughter’s death. However, Lee said she had heard enough. She said she would leave the country and would not attend the trial. “I am waiting on Home Affairs to conclude my application for my trip abroad. I will not be here for the trial. I will be in Asia, working on the book about my daughter’s life, and working to make some money for when I return. “I want to use the time to counsel myself. Writing the book will help me face my loss,” she said. Lee said she would focus on telling the story of her daughter and what a wonderful soul she was, and on the pain of the day she went missing. “I would probably begin telling her story from January 4, the day I realised that she was missing. I do not wish that on any parent. “I went out of my mind the following day. I had a feeling that something terrible had happened to her. Police began asking frightening questions, like if she had a tattoo and what colour nail polish she had on,” Lee said in tears. On Thursday, former sex workers packed the court in support of Siam. Outside court, Mickey Meji, advocacy co-ordinator at Embrace Dignity, a network of women who have exited prostitution, said that sex workers were abused and killed. Many such incidents do not make it to court and many go unreported. “We are here in support of people like Siam Lee who are not protected and who are looked down upon,” Meji said. “We are shocked to learn that she died such a painful death; she was burnt alive. “Prostitution is not something that a person decides to do. It’s through circumstances that women find themselves in this situation,” Meji said. Daily News