The Daily News reported last week that the gang had been linked to 18 murders. The group of men had the same modus operandi as gangs that terrorised people at Glebelands Hostel, which led to many deaths. EThekwini council chief whip Nelly Nyanisa said the men were arrested over a period of about two weeks, ending last week. The arrests came after investigations by the Crime Intelligence and Organised Crime units and metro police’s advanced unit, which began earlier this year. Thirteen of the 14 suspects were denied bail; the last was expected to make an application for bail soon. Vanessa Burger, an independent community activist for human rights and social justice, who campaigned for the problems that plagued Glebelands to be resolved, expressed concern at what was happening at KK Hostel. Burger said hostels were prone to being taken over by criminals, especially where there was instability in the leadership of the facilities. She said they did not want the violence to escalate to Glebelands Hostel proportions. The Daily News has previously reported that more than 100 people had been killed at Glebelands since 2014. The violence led to former public protector Thuli Madonsela investigating the matter and a satellite police station being opened by former police minister Fikile Mbalula. Burger said block committees, which oversee the daily affairs of the hostel, would normally call police when criminals tried to muscle their way in, but this sometimes did not happen where there was poor leadership. She also pointed out that a Glebelands hitman had once lived at the KK Hostel. Another aspect that played a role was that there was a culture of “collection” at hostels. These collections would be for events like funerals, which were above board, but criminals often took advantage of these collections, using them to enrich themselves, said Burger. Vusi Zweni, the chairperson of Ubunye BamaHostela, which represents hostel dwellers, expressed shock that a gang operated at KK Hostel. “Our organisation previously tried to get the residents of KK Hostel to join us, but we heard that residents were being intimidated,” he said. Zweni said the main reason gangs targeted hostels was because it was “easy money”. Referring to the situation at Glebelands, Zweni said it was easy for the situation to become violent and for there to be deaths. He said other hostels like Thokoza and Dalton did not have such problems. Daily News