Durban - The negative publicity about Durban and its beaches has been proven wrong by the Soweto derby that was played in the city on Saturday, eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede said. And according to the city, the clash brought in R80m in spending on the day with 6 700 temporary created. Gumede was addressing the executive committee sitting at the city hall on Tuesday morning following the Telkom Knockout match between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. “I am excited because this meeting happens just after we have successfully hosted the Soweto Derby, a game between age-old arch-rivals Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. It was thrilling to see aerial views of our iconic Moses Mabhida bursting at the seams. Our city also fared well in catering for those who could not make it in the stadium by making available fan-parks that were also teeming with football fans,” Gumede said. She commended the fans for the good behaviour displayed throughout the football encounter. “This despite Amakhosi getting a hiding but nonetheless its dejected fans accepted the outcome of the game and understood that in sport there is a winner and a loser,” she said. She further commended the Metro Police for maximum visibility and their ability to control traffic. For the game, 48 000 tickets were sold while thousands more spectators watched the game on public viewing areas. Sbusiso Zondi of the Durban Tourism said Eyadini (in Umlazi) reported making over R1 million through having the public viewing area. “Everything that was negatively publicised about the beach was proven wrong. People were barefooted and the beach was clean. About 15 000 people were in attendance of the public viewing area on the beach front while thousands more were in other venues including Umlazi. We ensured that working with Supersport we had a cross live in Max Lifestyle and another one on the beach front. From the tourism point of view, the destination was sold during the game. All the broadcasting stations who were involved mentioned Durban throughout the game,” Zondi said. Four establishments that were part of the event - Sbu’s Lounge, Artizen Lounge, Max Lifestyle and Eyadini accommodated about 15 000 spectators on the day, and the venues accumulated a combined R2.85 million. Daily News