This was apparently mainly because the city was still trying to get the buy-in from affected stakeholders, such as informal and street traders, and taxi associations. According to municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela, the Warwick Avenue flyover was one of the many components of the project. Other elements included a shopping mall, improved pedestrian walkways, pedestrianisation of Julius Nyerere (Warwick) Avenue, a public square and the modernisation of the Early Morning Market and the English Market. Mayisela said another component which he described as having experienced “major” delays was putting a roof over the Muthi Market, as well as some social housing projects and student accommodation. “There have been major delays in implementing these projects due to a study that the eThekwini Transport Authority (ETA) is conducting at the moment, which will look at inner-city distribution networks. We want to align with the proposed network that would come out of this study,” he said. Mayisela said once the study was completed, the Department of Economic Development and eThekwini Transport Authority would start a public participation campaign on what it was envisioned the Warwick development would look like in the future. “The public participation campaign will also look at which projects will be implemented in phase one of the development,” said Mayisela. He said at this stage it was not easy to determine a time frame for the completion of the project because of the delays, which included the ETA study. However, he said once public participation was completed the city would be in a better position to determine a date of completion. “There is a new master plan that is being done with the public transport study. Once this plan is complete we will create a three-dimensional visualisation of the precinct, showing where the areas of interest will be and how the development will mitigate against climate change. We have 3D visualisation for the precinct, but it is outdated - but it still has the various proposals that people wanted to see in this vicinity.” Mayisela noted that some of the key issues and challenges in the completion of this project also included getting buy-in from all the affected stakeholders. “These include taxi associations, informal traders, in all eight markets, and street traders and formal businesses.” He added the estimated investment value of the Warwick Triangle Development project could increase from the R1.3billion initially estimated. As of March last year, he said the socio-economic benefits of the project were that it would have an investment value of R1.3bn, creating 3500 construction jobs as well as 2670 permanent jobs. The proposed figures, said Mayisela, would have to be amended since the cost of doing the project in a year’s time would be different from what was estimated back then. “Some numbers will go up. For example, the construction cost will escalate, and this is normal to factor in inflation. “Some costs may even decrease,” he said. Daily News