This happened in Durban during the third leg of the Competition Commission’s nationwide hearings into the sector on Thursday. The first leg was held in Gauteng and the second in the Western Cape. Jabulani Mazibuko, the chairperson of the NTA, said tenders for scholar transport were mainly awarded to Indians. He said he did not agree with Indians operating buses in mainly black townships. Njabulo Nkomo, also of the NTA, said bus owners were subsidised while taxis were not, creating unfair competition. This was hard on taxi operators who tried to keep prices down in solidarity with cash-strapped passengers. He raised the lack of ownership as another challenge facing taxi operators. “The taxi industry is like the black sheep of the transport industry in South Africa. We do not know whether we are private companies or not,” he said. Nkomo was referring to the lack of companies being set up within the taxi industry. He complained that police would stop them to check if they had the proper documents and to inspect their vehicles for roadworthiness. He claimed that this was not the case with Indian bus owners, who “would overload a vehicle until it leaned to one side”, but who would not be stopped by police “because of their race”. Nkomo told the commission that there should be a specific inquiry into the taxi industry because of the numerous problems it faced. However, his views were not shared by the BOA. Mohanlall Dehal, the association’s chairperson, argued that the majority of Indian bus operators did not have a subsidy. He said the public had the right to choose whatever mode of transport they wanted. “We have also suffered for many years trying to uplift the people,” he said. Dehal said the best way forward was to get together and discuss the matters that affected the parties because attacking each other was not the best way to resolve differences. He said they also had to ensure that their buses were in tip-top shape as they went for roadworthy tests twice a year, which was something taxi owners did not have to do. Sibusiso Ntuli, from the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport, said there were challenges in that many buses that were subsidised were owned by Indians, but there was a transformation agenda to address this issue, in line with the policies of the country. Senior metro police superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, said taxis and buses were treated equally and all drivers needed a public driver’s permit to ensure that they were fit to be on the roads. Daily News