At first I didn’t realise something was amiss. Then I noticed men along the wall on Umhlangane Road, crouching and clearly anxious. Further down the road a silver car was doing what seemed like the final stages of a U-turn. I didn’t take particular notice as it sped past me. My focus was on two men walking in my direction. Both looked disorientated and one man’s shirt appeared torn. Then it struck me: they had been hijacked and it was their car that had sped past me. It was at this very spot that my father was hijacked a few years ago. I turned my car with the intention of giving chase. As I passed the two victims, I checked if they were okay. They were both in shock, but their focus was not their own well-being; the hijackers had shot someone, they told me, pointing ahead. As I passed a red VW, I saw two men. One was on the ground and just above his elbow was a visible blood stain. The second person was trying to help him. I got out of my car and asked the man trying to help the shooting victim if an ambulance had been called. He asked me to do so and I called Netcare 911. The time was 15.36pm. Two children suddenly emerged, crying. I realised the man who had been shot was their father. They were pleading with God not to let their dad die. They were torn between staying with their father or going home to get their granddad. A few women from the crowd held onto them and tried to reassure them. The victim was motionless. Minutes seemed like hours. Marshall Security arrived. I called Netcare again. They told me the ambulance was 18 minutes away. Just then a Crisis Medical ambulance arrived and the paramedics treated the victim. A Netcare vehicle arrived later and the paramedic joined the fight to save a stranger’s life. A woman put her hands together and prayed. The rest of us watched the paramedics. There was nothing we could do, but it’s likely everyone had the same thought: “That could be me.” The children’s grandfather arrived. Someone took them home. More loved ones arrived. Distraught. Shocked. Angry. It took about 30 minutes before the first marked police vehicle arrived. The hijackers were long gone. The time it took for the police to arrive did not go unnoticed. As the paramedics worked, a few drops of rain began to fall. Someone brought umbrellas. After 45 minutes the paramedics declared the man dead. A few of us tried to console his father, but what can you say to a dad who describes his son as “my everything”? As I walked away, I looked towards the eastern skies. A rainbow had formed, but it didn’t last long. Daily News