Handing down judgment against the only surviving accused, Sanele Makhanya, Nkosi lashed out at the police for failing to respond to the initial incident at a tavern which he said might have prevented the other crimes from happening. “If the police had responded to the call, the accused would have been arrested in the first incident and the shooting at the Mzila household would probably not have happened,” he said. Makhanya, 27, was found guilty yesterday on 21 out of 26 counts including four counts of murder, robbery, house-breaking, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. His accomplice, Sibonelo Jali, was shot dead by police when he tried to flee from the Mzila home. Makhanya was acquitted on five counts involving the rape charge at the Mzila home, attempted murder of two surviving Mzila family members, the murder of Jali, and the possession of an illegal firearm found next to Jali’s body. Witness On January 14 last year, a witness phoned police to report that he had seen two men entering the Zondi home in uMlazi. He told the court he could see them clearly because there was sufficient street lighting. The police never arrived. Makhanya and Jali raped three women in the house and fled. A few weeks later, the two entered a tavern in uMlazi where they demanded money and cellphones from patrons, firing random gunshots and wounding eight people before fleeing. The court heard that from the tavern, the men went to the Mzila family home. They shot dead Zithulele Mzila, 33, who was sleeping in an outside bedroom, then proceeded into the main house where they killed Hlengiwe Mzila, 30, Sibongile Mzila, 69, and her son, Lungisani. One other woman in the house was raped. “The victims in the first incident at the Zondis could not identify Makhanya and Jali as they were not known to them,” said Nkosi. He said the evidence by the witness who had called the police, that he had a clear chance to see Jali and Makhanya when they left the Zondi home as they walked under the street light, put Makhanya at the scene. He also found the evidence of a patron who was tipped off by Makhanya about their impending crime, to be credible. The woman testified that when Jali and Makhanya ordered everyone to lie down, she was the only one who remained standing and was shot in the hand and thigh. Nkosi found her evidence and identification more reliable than that of the patrons lying on the floor with their faces down. He, however, also found the evidence by Makhanya’s girlfriend - only referred to as Mandisa - to be overwhelming. “The evidence that clearly implicates Makhanya is that of his girlfriend, Mandisa. Her evidence corroborates with the events that happened that night. I believe the accused (Makhanya) wanted to shift the blame by putting the blame on the dead man. Mandisa was far (away) in Port Shepstone, she would not have known about the incidents at the tavern and at the Mzila home,” he said. He said there was no evidence that Makhanya had pulled the trigger, but he knew that Jali was armed. The judge said that instead of disassociating himself from Jali, Makhanya helped himself to valuables in the house while Jali repeatedly raped one of the women after killing and threatening others. Sentencing was expected on Wednesday. Daily News