While the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) saw it as another contribution to a dialogue about school safety, the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) felt the call was short-sighted. Parents, however, felt that if metal detectors would serve as a deterrent, although an expensive one, it was worth looking at as a possibility. The recent reports of gang fights and faction fights at some of the province’s schools, was a concern that needed swift intervention from Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana, the IFP said in a statement. The department, however, argued that the issues raised were a “societal matter” that required the intervention of all education stakeholders, including parents. A similar call by KZN teachers’ unions over the years for the deployment of at least two security guards at public schools has not materialised. Nomarashiya Caluza, Sadtu provincial secretary, said while they believed the community should be involved in making sure that schools were a safe place, they viewed the IFP’s proposal as a contribution to the discussions on violence at the province’s schools. “As education stakeholders, we agree that school safety is a responsibility on all of us. “Our view is that the community has a role to play because the criminals victimising our schools come from the community and the weapons found at our schools are from the community,” said Caluza. Thirona Moodley, of Naptosa, said metal detectors would not end school violence when pupils were raised in violent communities and exposed to dangerous weapons. “It is a short-sighted proposal. We need to instil and implement effective discipline which sets out examples and consequences. It is about how schools manage the situation,” said Moodley. She proposed that conflict-solving skills should be taught as part of the school curriculum to teach children that violence did not solve anything. IFP spokesperson on education Thembeni Madlopha­-Mthethwa said the uncontrollable levels of gangsterism and the number of undisciplined pupils, fights between pupils and the smuggling of dangerous weapons to school, was getting out of hand. “Gangsterism is the order of the day in most schools in the province. Pupils attend schools with dangerous weapons and drugs in their bags, while others become serious drug mules and even merchants,” said Madlopha-Mthethwa. Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said while the department took the issue of school violence seriously, installing metal detectors at schools was not the department’s responsibility, but that of the police. He said school safety was the responsibility of all stakeholders. “It begins with a parent making sure that their child does not take a weapon or drugs to school by checking their school bags before they leave for school. Making schools safe is everyone’s responsibility, including the IFP’s,” said Mthethwa. Daily News