Retired judge Diale Frans Kgomo and his office - the Office of the DPCI Judge - are touring the country informing people of their oversight service over the Hawks. Kgomo said the public could lodge complaints if they felt aggrieved by an investigation conducted by the Hawks and the Hawks themselves - where there is alleged improper influence or interference in their investigations - could come to his office for reprieve. “If complaints fall outside of our ambit, we can also call on bodies like Ipid, provincial commissioners or even the head of the Hawks to assist us; they can also refer matters that fall within our mandate,” said Kgomo. With their findings, they make recommendations to the police minister to take action. The office is also accountable to the portfolio committee on police. “It is illegal for someone to refuse to comply with a direct order of the DPCI judge/Hawks ombudsman. “I’m very passionate about this work because Section 205 of the constitution decrees that the police - the SAPS, the Hawks, and various directorates in the police - have to prevent and investigate crime and ensure that the citizens of a country live in peace. “I’m passionate about this because the police and other directorates have to be above reproach,” said Kgomo. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said the significance of this office could not be over-emphasised. “(The DPCI) is tasked to investigate organised crime, commercial crime, corruption and other serious crime. And they must execute this task without fear or favour. Politicians should be left dealing with politics and the Hawks should be left to their investigations. There should be no interference.” He praised the Hawks for combating commercial and organised crime and for arrests of suspects linked to armed robberies, ATM bombings, cash-in-transit heists and bank robberies in KwaZulu-Natal. “They were able to arrest 14 police officers who were part of a crime syndicate in the Golela border post. A few months ago, 15 examiners were arrested for alleged fraud and corruption in our driving licence testing centres.” But Kaunda said KZN was still facing a challenge - referring to taxi violence, faction fighting and recent hijackings in Chatsworth and Avoca.  For more information, visit www.dpcijudge.gov.za.  Daily News