Their report to Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga was released this morning in Pretoria. The task team has recommended that the present Curriculum Assessment Policy Statements (CAPS) history curricula be reviewed for a number of reasons. These include that content offered to pupils “avoids controversial and problematic issues”; that “the CAPS curriculum makes the topics and themes on Africa too “touristy”; and that it is a flawed structure that sees pupils “missing the boat because the rich history is all taught too early in their lives”. CAPS is policy set out by the National Department of Education that states what should be included in school curricula for each grade, as well as how it is to be tested or assessed. The task team said despite its recommendation of the overhaul, “this must be undertaken as a strategic process which involves experts and educators”. They detail a phased-in, year-by-year strategy, leading to full roll-out and phasing in of compulsory history for Grades 10 to 12 by 2030. Their recommendations suggest involving experts including archaeologists, historians, history teachers and universities, among others. In 2014 Motshekga expressed her intention to conduct an investigation into the history curriculum after a call by teachers and trade unions to reconsider how history is taught. There were also calls to make the subject compulsory. As a result, a task team was put together. Their research was concluded in late 2017. A report was handed over to Motshekga in April. After conducting comparative studies with four African, seven European and three Asian countries, they found the question of “compulsory history” at senior level is not unique to the South African context. But the report noted that all “contextual factors and concerns or challenges specific to South Africa would have to be carefully considered”. “For example: capacity, teacher training, content, budgetary implications and planning. “Budgetary matters will have implications for roll-out and implementation of compulsory history at the upper level and if a phased approach is considered, it will allow for better planning and teachers to be trained to begin the process of implementing compulsory history from Grades 10 to 12,” said the report. It said teacher training was vital: “We cannot assume any teacher can teach history and this is a strong message that should be sent to the Department of Basic Education, subject advisors, teachers and all school principals. This will require strong partnerships around teacher training with universities.” The report said the main objective of history education was “to produce a pupil who knows the ‘story’ of who we are in its many layers”. “It is not just content for content’s sake, as the CAPS history curricula seems to suggest...The gaze of the history of South Africa was always towards Europe and the impression was that we produced students who knew more about European history, but who never learnt how to think about, or cope with, conflicting history on a continental, national or personal level. The South African content avoids controversial and problematic issues. This undermines the fact that a multiperspective approach is relevant in history.” Teaching the theme about the origins/evolution of humans from a paleontological perspective, the African myths of origin and also from a religious perspective was cited as an example. Another criticism was that CAPS “assumed” themes on pre-colonial history could not be taught at Further Education and Training (FET) level (Grades 10 to 12), and revisited when pupils have a “higher level of intellectual sophistication”. “We feel the CAPS curriculum makes the topics and themes on Africa too “touristy”. It is because they are taught when children are not yet able to make sophisticated connections, leaving out the historiographical, analytical, literary and idiomatic aspects of the history curriculum which should be taught at FET level. “Problematic and controversial issues facing us as a nation have to be part of the syllabus content,” said the report: “For example, teaching history should also focus on analysing the political economy of race, racism and discrimination Overall the intended behaviour might be described as one of sympathetic understanding for humanity and the human condition - including the promotion of human solidarity irrespective of gender, race, ethnicity, colour or creed.” If we analyse the CAPS content closely, “in terms of historiography, it privileges an eclectic approach which is specifically biased towards the Liberal School of thought as a dominant historiographical paradigm in South Africa,”, said the report. “To focus on a specific example, the CAPS content on the age of revolution, and also the content about struggle for national liberation in South Africa, highlights this fact. Related to the theme and content on the national liberation struggle in South Africa, the CAPS liberal historiographical paradigm glosses over the issue related to the analysis of existing power relations and production of historical knowledge - particularly the representations by the different schools of thought.” The full report will be made available on the Basic Education Ministry’s website. Daily News