Durban - Protests continue at the Kennedy Road informal settlement on Thursday after a group of protesters set alight another eThekwini Municipality truck. On Wednesday protesters set alight two municipal trucks and a bus. Nearby residents alleged that a group of thugs walking around with petrol bombs caused much of the havoc at the settlement near Umgeni Road. The residents believe that the legitimate issues raised by some shack dwellers have been hijacked by thugs who have set alight several vehicles in recent weeks. Dennis Sokhalingham, a Clare Estate community activist, made the claim after a Durban Solid Waste (DSW) refuse collection truck was set alight on Electron Road near the Bisasar Road landfill site on Wednesday. Half an hour later a truck belonging to the eThekwini municipality Parks and Gardens department was set alight on the M19/Umgeni Road split towards the N2 northbound. The truck was loaded with tree branches. Late on Wednesday night, a Durban Transport bus was set alight. the passengers fled to safety. Last week an Overport resident was attacked with bricks and his Jaguar motor vehicle was torched while he was travelling on Electron Road. It is alleged that people residing in the Kennedy Road informal settlement were not happy with the demolition of illegal shacks on Wednesday. "This is terrorist behaviour. It is strange that this behaviour has been going on for some time but nobody has been arrested. Police are aware the area is volatile but did not make a concerted effort to preventing two other vehicles from being set alight. This will trickle down to affect the ratepayers,"Sokhalingam said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Christopher Pappas, an eThekwini Councillor, said the DSW compactor truck that was set aight was worth R2.7 million. Durban Metro Police spokesperson, Parboo Sewpersad said a volatile crowd had to be controlled. “The situation will continuously be monitored, but I feel that the trucks were just there at the wrong time,” he said. Read: Two Durban waste trucks set alight Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, KZN Police spokesperson, said that a community member threw something at the trucks which caused the trucks to catch alight. Zwane said no arrests had been made and a public violence case has been opened by Sydenham police for further investigation. Read also: Two injured in petrol bomb attack at service delivery protest Daily News