Durban - DA councillor Sharon Hoosen became the latest casualty since the party’s new caucus leader in the eThekwini Municipality, Nicole Graham, took over a few months ago.The party’s federal executive (Fedex) recently received a recommendation from Graham that Hoosen and councillor Heinz de Boer be removed from the municipality’s executive committee (Exco). De Boer, who remains a councillor, resigned two weeks after he was appointed deputy caucus leader, apparently after he was told of Graham’s recommendation to Fedex. The Daily News was reliably informed that Hoosen had been stripped of her position as party chief whip and replaced by Thabani Mthethwa. At least three caucus members said the decision to remove Hoosen was made on June 9. They said Hoosen would now take up a seat in the provincial legislature. “This could be viewed as a move to purge all those who were close to Zwakele Mncwango, the former party leader in Exco. But this was a relief for Sharon, because she will soon move to the legislature and be away from this dictator (Graham),” said one member. The Daily News reported in April that the newly elected Graham had caused divisions in the party. At the time, Francois Rodgers, the DA’s provincial chairperson, confirmed that soon afterwards Graham had made recommendations to Fedex for De Boer and Hoosen’s removals from Exco. Graham defended her move, saying it was every leader’s prerogative to select who sat at Exco. The insiders said Graham’s recommendation could have been made after she had sat down with the existing team and then decided if there was a need to remove them. “Do you decide to remove individuals before you know the team’s approach to issues and understand their style? How do you say so and so is not fit for the position? Logic will tell you a leader would look into the possibility of continuity or familiarise themselves with the style of the existing team and then decide who is to be replaced,” said one insider. “Sharon is definitely going to the legislature. We are not sure when but Mark Steele is retiring soon so Sharon is earmarked to fill that MPL position. “This new caucus leader has had some pretty unsavoury confrontation with some caucus members. I see a motion of no confidence against her pretty soon. Up to now she has not come to caucus and told us why she removed Sharon as chief whip. That’s the kind of leader she is,” said another caucus member. Hoosen declined to comment. Graham, speaking to the Daily News said it was normal that when a new leadership is elected there will be some changes which some would perceiv as "unsavoury". READ: Durban DA caucus leader on a witch-hunt say insiders Asked about Hoosen’s future in the DA, Rodgers said: “I’m not obliged to say much except to say we will have a meeting at the legislature to announce some changes in the DA caucus leadership in the legislature. Councillor Hoosen will remain a public figure and member of the DA. Some leadership changes will be revealed on Thursday.” However, party provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango downplayed Hoosen’s move to the legislature. He said she would remain a councillor until a position was available in Pietermaritzburg. “Sharon was number one and still maintains the position in the provincial and national candidate lists. She was removed from the national list because she is also on the provincial list. If she moves to the provincial legislature it will be on merit and not on some personal vendettas.” Daily News