“We are all holding our breath that this load shedding doesn’t carry on, as we know how disruptive it can be,” Musa Makhunga, the president of the Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said yesterday. Eskom spokesperson Dikatso Mothae said: “Although Eskom workers are due back to work (on Monday), with wage negotiations starting between the unions and the power utility tomorrow, load shedding would continue as the power system was still constrained. “It will remain constrained for several days and could take up to 10 days to recover from the effects of the recent industry action. We still need to assess the recovery plan,” she said. Load shedding (a last-resort measure to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout) followed what Eskom said was illegal protest action by some workers at various sites, where they had downed tools. It came in the wake of a power struggle between the unions, which were demanding a 15% wage increase for workers, and Eskom, which argued there were no funds to meet their demands. Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan stepped in, calling both parties in for a meeting and announcing afterwards that wage negotiations would resume and that the production of the electricity supply would be restored. But by then load shedding had already had a major impact on local developments, such as the multibillion-rand Oceans Umhlanga project. “It is most unfortunate that load shedding was reintroduced as it affects all of us in construction,” developer Vivian Reddy said. He added that power tools could not be operated without electricity and that the eight cranes at the site were also unable to be operated without power. His KwaDukuza Mall, also under construction, was also affected. Reddy pointed the finger at Eskom for failing to deal with the wage issue effectively. “If Eskom had been more prudent, we would not be facing these blackouts. Business loses money when there are blackouts and there is a lack of confidence in the country from the rest of the world. “Eskom should have considered the broader picture and the economic situation in South Africa. This is not a matter ­between Eskom and the unions; it is a matter between Eskom and the entire country,” said Reddy. The Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry received complaints when businesses in some parts of the city were hit by load shedding, the president said. “It was so unexpected and they were totally unprepared. Although it was only for two to three hours, it was still disruptive,” Makhunga said. “Although load shedding obviously had a negative impact on manufacturing, it also affected other operations, as even the smallest businesses are ­dependent upon the internet.” However, it was encouraging that the parties would be back at the negotiating table, he said. Makhunga urged businesses to prepare by consulting eThekwini Municipality’s load shedding schedule (visit www.durban.gov.za). Meanwhile, Eskom has called on people to use electricity sparingly and wisely, advising residents and businesses to switch off geysers during the day. Other tips are to watch the World Cup at a pub or with family or a friend who is not on the day’s load-shedding schedule. Daily News