He arrived at his first stop, his alma mater Glenwood High School, in private security company Reaction Unit SA’s helicopter. Hundreds of pupils dressed in their green blazers waved at him as he landed on the sports field. He delivered the tree, and a copy of the Book of Trees, donated by the Durban Botanic Gardens Trust, to the acting principal, Andri Barnes, who was delighted the school was the first of the hundred schools chosen for the initiative to be visited. “We would like to thank Damon for proving that after all these years his blood is still green,” said Barnes. She appealed to Glenwood pupils to follow in Beard’s footsteps by taking care of the environment. Prem Balram, from Reaction Unit SA, became involved with the initiative because of his love for the environment, and flew Beard and a Daily News reporter to the second school, Fynnland Senior Primary on the Bluff, where pupils were gathered on the field. At Fynnland the indigenous tree was delivered to the principal, Dharumdutt Badripersad, who said he was fully behind the initiative, and promised the tree would be planted immediately. “I have always been a fan of Damon’s and I am so happy to finally meet him... I would like to thank him for this good initiative,” he said. After the Fynnland delivery, Damon flew back to the Reaction Unit SA offices, before heading to the other schools on his list by car. “Thanks to Key Pinetown for their generous contribution to this initiative, of offering their vehicles to deliver to the rest of the schools all over KZN that I could not physically go to. “Because of that, the 100 deliveries were possible,” said Beard. He added that through the six months of planning for the project he was grateful for assistance from Mondi, who bought the 100 trees, Key Pinetown for the vehicles and deliveries, and the Botanic Gardens Trust for taking care of the trees before they were handed over to schools. He was also thankful to all the schools involved for allowing him to present the trees to them. “Some of the schools I chose do not even have addresses; they are just down a dirt road, and I appreciate their co-operation with this initiative,” he said. When asked if he would be checking on the trees 50 years from now, Beard laughed and said: “Well I will be a 100 years old then, but the schools received these trees only on the condition that they would give me updates on the upkeep of the trees at least once a year.” Daily News