Residents and people with detailed knowledge of the matter claimed the houses were built just after the first democratic elections in 1994, while mayor Zandile Gumede said they were built by the apartheid government. The residents, including former MK soldiers Sthembiso Cibane and Nkanyiso Ntuli, alleged the toilets were last emptied in 2017. Some were filled with maggots, and children in the area were often getting sick with stomach ailments. Cibane said when he went into exile, he was hoping for a better life once the apartheid system was toppled. “The time I spent in exile is the most painful part of my life because in the end, I became a loser. I’m a loser who had dreams of living in a proper home with a family. My children visit me here but they don’t stay, they go back to their grandparents. They demolished our shacks to make way for these houses,” Cibane said. He said he now shared his toilet with neighbours. When asked to describe the living conditions in the area, Cibane became tearful and said: “I don’t even have a house. I live with my in-laws. Life is difficult. Our government gave us these houses, and some, like me, never got lucky,” he said. The eThekwini Municipality had since instructed its water and sanitation unit to count the toilets in the affected areas to have a database which would assist them in instructing a contractor to take charge of emptying the pit toilets. Sipho Nzuza, the city manager, said he was told by a contractor that there were about 16 000 toilets in the area. Zama Mthembu, another resident, raised the concern about the children’s well being in the area. “They play around touching everything, and that’s not good in an area like this. A caring government would have done something to prevent allocating substandard houses with no ablution facilities to the people,” Mthembu said. A source close to the matter said Nigel Gumede was in charge of the municipal human settlements unit when the houses were built. “There were shacks in the areas and after the elections those houses were built. This is not, and was not good planning. The area was not surveyed and there was no proper infrastructure, like a sewage system, put in place. They just built without taking into consideration the health hazards people would be exposed to without proper ablution facilities. The toilets were last emptied last year,” said the source. Gumede declined to comment on the matter citing protocol, and referred the Daily News to Mondli Mthembu, chairperson of human settlements. Attempts to get comment from Mthembu were unsuccessful. Mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said some of the areas were designed by the apartheid government and that when the ANC took over, the projects were handed over to the new government. “Our government is trying to rescue the situation with the urgency it deserves. The city is in the process of getting honey suckers to move in and empty those toilets,” he said. Daily News