The victim was the first of the women to lay charges against 30-year-old Pinetown man Mthobisi Mnyandu. The pain and violation she had suffered were still fresh in her mind. The survivor, who was 16 years old at the time, appeared uncomfortable as ­Mnyandu claimed the women were his girlfriends. He also testified that he had slept with them once, on the day he met them. The rape incidents allegedly took place between December 2010 and September 2016. Mnyandu pleaded not guilty to eight counts of rape and eight counts of kidnapping. He claimed the devil made him want to sleep with the young women. He insisted the sexual intercourse was consensual as he would first court the women and they would agree to sleep with him. This appeared to upset the survivor and she cried for most of the court proceedings. She was comforted by the two women who accompanied her. According to the indictment, Mnyandu would approach the women, three of whom said they were virgins at the time, and force them to isolated areas such as the stadium in Wyebank or the bushes, and rape them. The other incidents in which Mnyandu allegedly used the same modus operandi to lure women took place in Inanda, north of Durban. Under cross-examination, State advocate Krishen Shah said it was hard to believe Mnyandu’s version that a virgin would allow a stranger to have sex with her in such an unromantic and disgusting public place and then later open a case of rape against him. Shah questioned Mnyandu on what the women were aiming to gain by laying false cases against him. Mnyandu said the women probably did it to lie to their parents. “It was not my intention to have feelings of sex with them. It just happened,” said Mnyandu. Shah argued that Mnyandu’s version was not the truth and put it to him that he had used a knife to threaten the young women to sleep with him and took them against their will. One of the victims, a 14-year-old, was walking home from a friend’s house in Amatikwe area in Inanda, when she was allegedly approached by Mnyandu, who forced her to go into the nearby bushes where he raped her. Speaking to the Daily News outside court yesterday, the victim said: “It is not easy living with the pain of rape. “I take each day as it comes and hope to make it through. “I hope one day I will be able to make peace with it, forgive the person who did this to me and move on,” the victim said. The trial continues. Daily News