All the children at Makabongwe have parents who are informal street traders. “All the facilities have been donated and 83% of our income is from cash donations and donations in kind. Our biggest challenge is our running cost, especially staff salaries. So donations in kind, like what we receive from the Daily News Milk and Welfare Fund, are a big help. We simply could not survive without them,” said principal Theresa Lukan. The Daily News Milk and Welfare Fund have been going for 81 years. It collects cash donations from members of the public, various companies and Independent Newspapers’ staff, which is used to supply and distribute milk and milk powder to crèches in KwaZulu-Natal. “We have 152 children, aged from three to six, attending Grade 000 to Grade R. For some of the children, what we give them is probably the most wholesome meal they get for the day. We feed them porridge in the morning, a cooked, nutritious lunch and an afternoon snack,” said Lukan. The fund was founded by Daily News employees in 1937 to help less fortunate members of the public, especially children. In the early years the fund bought fresh milk in glass bottles which was given to selected crèches and welfare organisations. It later began supplying full-cream powdered milk. In 2011, the board decided to start buying energy porridge for crèches and preschools. In 2012, the fund provided both full-cream milk and FutureLife to all its beneficiaries. Livingstone Pillay, the fund’s chairperson, said the fund supports 119 crèches, preschools and welfare organisations across KZN, mainly in the greater Durban and Pieter­maritzburg areas, Port Shepstone and KwaDukuza. In total, 19700 children under the age of six receive at least one glass of milk and a bowl of energy porridge a day, which equates to more than half a million servings a month. “Our aim is to increase donor support in order to increase our reach to deserving crèches, preschools and welfare organisations in KZN. “We are grateful to our donors who faithfully support us each month. Without their increased support that daily glass of milk or bowl of porridge will remain just a dream for the thousands of underprivileged children in this province who need our help. “So we appeal to those who have not yet made the commitment to help - please open your hearts and let us all create a happier world for those less fortunate than ourselves,” he said. Here are the fund’s banking details, should you wish to become a donor: Bankers: First National Bank Branch: Anton Lembede Street Name: The Daily News Milk And Welfare Fund Account Type: Current Account Number: 508 415 95819 Bank Code: 221 426 Daily News