Durban - Waste removal contractors from uMlazi dumped garbage all over the Inkosi Albert Luthuli (Southern)M4 Freeway on Monday after claiming that the eThekwini Municipality had not paid them for their services for almost three months. The subcontractors met outside Moses Mabhida stadium on Monday morning where they thought they would meet the city manager Sipho Nzuza to deliver their grievances regarding issues with payments. The men had brought vehicles carrying waste that they had collected and threatened to dump the garbage at the Moses Mabhida Stadium. A group of the contractors told the Daily News that they were tired of working only to not be paid which meant they could not pay their workers. “There are people depending on us for payments, we feed families and the municipality is making us look like bad people,” said Mandlakhe Kunene a businessman under the Delangokubona Business Forum. “We want the city manager to come and speak to us and explain why we have not been paid,” said Kunene. They claimed that they have been attending meetings with the city where they were promised payments but had not received them. After leaving the meeting at Moses Mabhida stadium without having met with the city manager the men headed to the M4 where they dumped the garbage that they had brought with them. Chairperson of the Umlazi Business Forum, Mandla Mhlongo said they had been trying to communicate peacefully with the municipality but they now felt compelled to resort to new measures to get the city's attention. Parboo Sewpersad spokesperson for the Metro Police said traffic caused by the waste on the M4 will be controlled until the waste is cleared. Mandla Nsele the Acting Head of Communications at the eThekwini Municipality said all verified main contractors had been paid and that payments for subcontractors was outside of the municipalities scope. "Payments of sub-contractors appointed by the main contractors fall outside the scope of eThekwini. This is a relationship between the contractor and his subs," said Nsele. He offered the city's apologies for any inconvenience caused by the waste dumped on the freeway. Daily News 