Durban - Two Durban Metro Police officers were attacked on Thursday and police believe the incident is linked to the of a hijacker, Lungani Percyville “Sgoro”  Mkhize, who was shot dead by police officers in KwaMakhutha recently. A night vigil is expected to be held for Mkhize on Friday and a funeral service held on Saturday. Police have confirmed that they are aware of threats circulating in Umlazi that police vehicles will be stolen and burnt, and that officers will be attacked - among other reported threats - reportedly by way of paying homage to Mkhize. Durban Metro Police spokesman, Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, said their officers had been patrolling Umlazi’s N-Section on Thursday afternoon when the incident happened. “The officers were unarmed and conducting law enforcement patrols in the area. While doing so they spotted a white minibus taxi causing an obstruction on the road and approached the driver. While they were trying to talk the driver out of the taxi, two unknown males approached them and then three other unknown males joined in. They demanded firearms from our officers, despite seeing that they were unarmed. They then proceeded to ruffle their pockets. The officers were robbed of their cellphones, cash and the Metro Police van keys. The vehicle was stolen and later recovered in Umlazi H-Section.” Sewpersad said the suspects had fled into nearby bushes and no arrests were made. He said they believed the attack is linked to recent threats that have been made against police in the area since Mkhize’s death. “The deceased hijacker was shot and killed during a shootout with police in KwaMakhutha area. In light of this, the hijacking fraternity has vowed that they will steal police vehicles and burn them, that they will also capture a policeman and that they will be spinning their vehicles ahead of tonight’s (Friday) vigil for the deceased hijacker,” said Sewpersad. The vigil is believed to be taking place at a homestead in KwaMakhutha with Mkhize’s funeral believed to be taking place at a church in the area tomorrow. “We remain on high alert in the area. We will not afford the deceased hijacker or the hijacking fraternity celebrity status. We will be on high alert for any wheel spinning activity, dispensing of firearms and the threats to steal police vehicles and attack officers. We will not allow this,” said Sewpersad. In February, five policemen were killed by an armed gang at the Ngcobo Police Station between Umtata and Queenstown in the Eastern Cape. According to police, the armed gang entered the police station in the early hours and without warning, randomly opened fire on the members on duty. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed the attack on the Metro Police officers. "Charges of carjacking and robbery were opened at Umlazi police station for investigation, she said. Daily News