Zikalala said they would not heed the call for all members of the Moses Mabhida region to be excluded from the provincial conference that was expected to take place at the University of Zululand this weekend. “All branches that have passed the stringent verification processes will be included in the conference and we will appoint a regional task team to deal with the issues there. Branches alleged to have not conducted their branch general meetings fairly will have their disputes heard (on Wednesday).” The call for all delegates from the Moses Mabhida region to be barred from participating in the provincial conference came yesterday when some aggrieved ANC members in the region threatened to legally challenge the outcomes of the conference if their calls were ignored. Speaking at a media briefing at the Pietermaritzburg Golf Club, one of the aggrieved members, Msizi Ngcobo, said that issues of gate-keeping, political instability and threats of violence needed to be dealt with before members from their region attended the conference. He accused the regional executive committee of continuing their duties illegitimately as their terms in office ended in November last year. “Since the branch general meetings, for the purposes of electing delegates to both regional and provincial conferences, were run by an illegitimate body, it therefore raises a query: Should they form part of the provincial conference? As Moses Mabhida activists, we take this discrepancy on internal processes devoid of any genuine renewal, rebuilding and uniting the ANC in both our region and province,” Ngcobo said. Ngcobo was joined by eight others from the region calling themselves the “ANC Activist Task Team”. He said this task team represented 44 of the 88 branches in the region. Party members from three regions - Moses Mabhida, Lower South Coast and Harry Gwala - are calling for a postponement of the conference, claiming they were being barred from branch meetings and were not allowed to register as members in good standing. Ngcobo said they learnt about the disbandment of the region via the uMgungundlovu community radio station during an interview with provincial task team member Thulani Xulu. He said they could only assume that the disbandment was informed by the lapsing of the term of office of the region’s regional executive council, the spate of political killings particularly in the region, the membership gate-keeping and the lack of consequent management for the regional ANC leaders who have deliberately been responsible for the transgressions which brought the party into disrepute. “The appeals committee has also not yet convened to deal with issues with the membership,” he said. Ngcobo, joined by eight others and calling themselves the “ANC activist task team”, said they would also “strongly object” to the composition of the regional task team as the branches were not properly consulted and enabled to make their inputs. “This would mean that the branches are disempowered and their rights have been infringed upon,” he said. The ANC in the province confirmed that four regions, Emalahleni Far North Musa Dladla and Inkosi Bhambatha, had successfully convened their branch general meetings and met the 70% threshold required to convene their regional conferences to elect new leadership. However, the ANC said four other regions were identified by the party as problematic - eThekwini Harry Gwala Lower South Coast and Moses Mabhida - because of their failure to deal with infighting. “The position of the Moses Mabhida activists is that holding the regional conference under these circumstances will undermine the organisational renewal processes. In fact if the regional conference were to be allowed to proceed, it will a clear indication of the lack of commitment on the part of our national leadership to create once and for all a politically conducive environment that will eliminate not only corruption, lack of proper governance but, more importantly, the ongoing politically motivated killings which are increasing in our region,” Ngcobo said. Daily News