At present, South Africa has two separate registers which are either not up to date, or inaccessible to most people, and gender activists say a register would play a huge role in fighting the scourge of rape and sexual molestation. A Durban mother told the Daily News that while the man who raped her and two other women recently got three life imprisonment sentences, she was worried that he could be released and then find a job where he would work with children. “I would find peace knowing that the person who raped me is listed on the register, and the register is made public. I am worried about the chances of this man being released and exposed to working with my child. Even worse, what if he gets to date my daughter or teach at my granddaughter’s school. Anything is possible,” she said. Last week the Daily News reported that South Africa had one of the highest rates of violence against women. Between 2015 and 2016/17, the rate of femicide surged by 117%. Currently, the Department of Justice’s National Register for Sexual Offenders only lists the details of people who have committed sexual offences against children and the disabled. A rape victim, who does not want to be identified, said that the laws regulating the National Register for Sexual Offenders should be amended to protect the public. “No one would probably know that the person they are about to employ to work in their home and around their children was previously convicted of rape.” The South Africa Council of Educators (SACE), which has its own register of teachers convicted of sexual offences - and which was supposed to use the Department of Justice’s National Register for Sexual Offenders to vet teachers - recently admitted that it had not used the register to vet teachers in the past as it was still in the process of gaining access to it. SACE spokesperson Themba Ndlovu said the council was currently engaging with the Department of Justice on other options of making records accessible to them. He said from January 2019, any convicted sex offender who wanted to be registered as a teacher would have to provide SACE with a police clearance certificate and would be vetted by a panel to determine if they were sufficiently rehabilitated to be registered as a teacher. When magistrate Karen Moopenaar recently sentenced serial rapist Siyabonga Patrick Cele to two life terms in jail for the rape of two women who were under age at the time of the attacks, she ordered that Cele’s name be included on the National Register for Sexual Offenders. Moopenaar stressed the consequences of being added to the list, which included that he would not be allowed to work with children and that it was his responsibility to inform his potential employer about his conviction when applying for a job. She said failure to do so would result in a fine or jail time. Another 35-year-old rape victim said she expected that her rapist would be listed in the register, but he wasn’t. “I was disappointed. There is no guarantee that the man would come out of jail rehabilitated. The public deserves to know that he is a convicted rapist and judge for themselves. I believe sexual molesters of adult women are still rapists,” she said. Mukoni Ratshitanga, the Department of Justice spokesperson, said the register, which currently has 28 979 offenders listed since June 2009, was not publicly available. Ratshitanga said the register probably only listed those who had violated children and the disabled because when the law was passed, they were considered to be more vulnerable. He said his department was concerned about the alarming rape statistics. In the past, the Auditor-General had also questioned the integrity of the list. “Another challenge was that the office is understaffed and is now being beefed up to deal with the workload,” he said. He said his department would be willing to look at suggestions for a general register for all sexual offenders. Advocate Reshwant Brijraj, chairperson of the Advice Desk for the Abused, said the proposal for a national register for all people convicted of sexual offences was tabled at their board meeting last week and was welcomed by all members. He said the non-registration of all sexual offenders contributed to sexual offenders becoming repeat sexual offenders. “Rape is rape; it has no age, and therefore the register should include all convicted sexual offenders,” said Brijraj. Cookie Edwards, of the KZN Network on Violence Against Women, said a universal register for all sexual offenders would serve as a deterrent to would-be offenders that not only would they serve time in jail, but they would also be included in the list that would make employers think twice before employing them.