The concern comes in the wake of Constable Sphumelele Mbuthuma’s shooting on Tuesday, when he was injured in the leg during protests in the Bhambayi area, near Phoenix. Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said protests like this were likely to escalate. “People are tired of corruption and incompetence and feel the only way to get local government’s attention is to take it to the streets, engaging through violence,” he said. The SA Police Union (Sapu) said officers needed more specialist training and increased resources. On Wednesday, Mbuthuma said: “I’m doing much better after surgery. My bone was fractured but this was an entry / exit bullet wound, so I’m grateful.” Metro police assistant commissioner and deputy head of operations Sibonelo Mchunu, who visited Mbuthuma in hospital  said police had to strike a balance between defending themselves and managing a protest scene. “But if members are going into protests where people use guns against them, this must be looked into. “You cannot have people landing up in hospital because they only have rubber bullets to protect their lives.” Superintendent Shane Spilsbury, who heads the metro’s Public Order Policing unit, said with officers managing 12 protests daily, many were injured. “I’ve been there myself. Last year, during a service delivery protest in Cato Manor, I was struck behind the head with a rock. I held on to my shotgun and my service pistol as the crowd tried to take them from me, beating me along the way. My wrist was fractured. “Recently, a member almost lost his hand when a protester held it over a stun grenade he was about to release,” he said. Spilsbury said protesters planned their moves. “They break up into smaller pockets, so you think they are dispersing, but while you have your attention on the bigger crowd in front of you, another crowd attacks you from the side or from the rear. Or while members are re-arming, they attack you, which is similar to what happened with Constable Sphumelele Mbuthuma. It all happens so fast,” he said. His unit was set up two years ago in response to increased violent protests. Officers from this unit were trained in Pretoria on crowd-and-protest control. “First, respondents go out to see if they can negotiate the crowd down at Level 1. By Level 2, it means the crowd is becoming violent. As we move to Level 3, where they cannot be controlled, we are called in. “But before we use force, we have a five-step system. Starting with a negotiation to talk down the crowd, shield and batons push, then tear gas, then a water cannon. After this, we resort to using shotguns with reduced rubber bullets,” said Spilsbury. The unit is still waiting for a water cannon and Casspir (specialist armoured vehicle). Sapu spokesperson Oscar Skommere said police, in general, needed more personnel trained in crowd control to manage violent protests. “The eight weeks of training they currently get is not enough. Police need more specialist vehicles, but these vehicles can only be channelled through to trained personnel, hence our call for more training and personnel.” Raymond Perrier, the director at the Denis Hurley Centre, said when the government failed to deliver services - “or wilfully ignores some of the poorest in the city” - historical inequalities become even greater. “There are many who work to bring together different citizens in Durban, but sadly there are some who, for economic or political gain, create disharmony. Violent protest is no answer, but it points to deeper problems that need honest solutions.” Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that two men, aged 23 and 32, were arrested in the Bhambayi case. They have been charged with public violence and attempted murder and are expected to appear in court soon. Daily News