Durban - The first patient received radiotherapy treatment at Addington Hospital on Wednesday following the repair of the broken Linear Accelerator machines. The department said it had treated a 74-year-old cervical cancer patient from Harding. According to the department, the procedure began at 1pm and took less than five minutes. This paves the way for the full restoration of oncology services, most particularly the radiotherapy service which came to a halt at the hospital because of challenges with the Linear Accelerator Machines while the Chemotherapy service continued smoothly, the department said in a statement. Dr Nokwanda Zuma, a newly appointed oncologist, led the team during the procedure. She said the elderly woman had locally advanced cervical cancer. “Fortunately, it is at a stage where we can still cure her. We’ll give her the whole treatment… some external beam radiation, some cervical bracket therapy, which means giving radiation close to the tumor and then we’ll continue treating her. Unfortunately, because of her age, we won’t give her chemotherapy, which is the standard for her stage of cancer. Her treatment is going to continue for the next three weeks. She’ll be treated every day, from Monday to Thursday while she’s getting her radiation. After three weeks, we would have finished her treatment and she can go home. We’ll see her again after six weeks to see how she’s doing, and how she’s coping with the treatment. And then we’ll follow up every three months to see how she’s doing, for about five years,” Dr Zuma said. In a statement released on May 31, the department had said it would see the first patient at the hospital on Tuesday. Late on Tuesday evening, the department told the Daily News that: “Due to circumstances beyond its control, the department is unable to immediately commence with oncology treatment as had been scheduled... The department is awaiting the go-ahead from the relevant radiation control authority to commence with the rendering of oncology services. The department will invite the Daily News to witness for itself and report on the treatment of the first patient to receive oncology treatment, once the go-ahead has been received and all logistics have been finalised”. That invitation was reversed on Wednesday around midday. Acting Head of Department Dr Musa Gumede said: “We can confirm that one machine is now functional at Addington and patients will now be scheduled for treatment. The second oncology machine has also arrived at Addington and is currently being installed. These machines are highly technological and require software upgrades, calibration, and other configurations. But we are confident that it will also soon be up and running. With one machine already working, we have already begun to alleviate pressure from Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital. Once the second one is up and running, we will be able to significantly reduce the burden of oncology cases in the province". Daily News