Thirty-two-year-old Nozipho Zulu is making eco-friendly accessories from sweets and chips packaging. She runs an arts and crafts company called ZuluGal Retro, which makes purses, glass cases, wrist bags, sling bags, handbags and backpacks. Born in Nongoma, north of KwaZulu-Natal, Zulu came to Durban to study Fine Arts. After working in the fine arts industry for more than nine years, she decided to launch her own company in 2016. She is part of the Red Bull Amaphiko Academy and Invo­Tech, which helped her start her company. “We produce hand-crafted fashion accessories, using upcycled and recycled laminated packaging.” Prices range from R80 to R700 and more. She trains unemployed, differently-abled youth and their caregivers. “I show them how to make these bags and how to recycle. That’s how they generate income for themselves.” She said they used laminated packaging because it was a readily available source material, generally found lying around.“The people I selected to teach were unemployed so I had to think along those lines. I didn’t want them to struggle to source raw material,” she said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We recycle, but we also upcycle, meaning we also use leftover packaging.” She said her company fought social issues with the use of arts and crafts. “I didn’t want us to just be making accessories and selling them. I also wanted to have a purpose behind it, solving economic issues such as unemployment, social inclusion and also environmental issues,” she said. She said at first her employees and the community were sceptical of her ideas. “But after they saw the actual products, and all the returns, they began to take it seriously and knew that this was how they would earn income and support their families.”. She sells her goods at fela markets. People are generally supportive of anything intended to reduce the country’s plastic footprint. “I know it’s still a bit of a challenge for people to understand what role these bags play in helping the environment. But I think society is beginning to understand that we only have one planet and we need to play our part in saving it,” she said. She recently won the silver award for recycling and waste management at the Eco-logic Awards 2018. Daily News