Durban - A truck was set on fire and at least two others looted of goods on the N2 between Hluhluwe and Mtubatuba in KwaZulu-Natal as protests turned violent on Tuesday. Videos doing the rounds on social media on Tuesday show people ripping open at least two and looting it of its goods. The KZN Road Traffic Inspectorate (RTI) said the road had been closed off in the Msekayi area. According to reports on Facebook, the protest is a result an industrial action by workers in the area. It was unclear what the protests were about on Tuesday morning. The Facebook page of Junior Jack Transport Having Handsome Drivers said: “Be warned and careful guys, trucks are burning between Hluhluwe and Mtubatuba.N2 closed as well as Mooi river”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The Facebook account of Mncedisi Bubesi Enyanisweni said: “There is a protest that led to the temporal closure of the N2 near Mtubatuba where two trucks burnt by dissatisfied workers.” The N2 Hluhluwe after Richardsbay is closed at Zamampilo Crossing protests are between Bushlands and Charters Creek, was also closed, authorities said. Zinhle Mngomezulu, spokesperson for the KZN RTI said that according to the information they had the violence and looting was related to a public protest.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “According to our officers at the scene one truck has been torched. For now, the road remains closed. As to the criminality of the matter, the SAPS will have to be contacted with regards to that,” she said. Police spokesperson, Thembeka Mbele said about 100 people were protesting. "Police from the area are at the scene, monitoring the situation and dispersing protestors," she said. Motorists were advised to avoid or delay travel to this area and to use alternate routes. Daily News