This was revealed by Magistrate Mahomed Motala on Thursday when 39-year-old Sibonelo Mkhize appeared in court for his address to be verified. The magistrate said Anele Mveku received messages that were “abusive” and “threatening”. She had reported the matter to the court authorities, including the magistrate. Mveku declined to reveal the contents of these messages to The Daily News. Mkhize is facing charges for the murder of Sadia and his alleged accomplice during a botched hijacking in Shallcross on Monday. He is also facing charges of kidnapping and theft. The State may still add more charges. Sadia was on her way to school with her father, Pastor Shalendra Sukhraj. She was in her father’s SUV when she was shot. As the suspects fled, one was killed and another was arrested, while a third suspect is still at large. Police Minister Bheki Cele visited the Sukhraj family in Chatsworth yesterday and confirmed that Mkhize had been out on parole when he and his accomplices allegedly committed the crime. Cele said the police knew the identity of the third suspect, and that it was only a matter of time before they picked him up. String He also said that the suspects had a “string of crimes” to their name. He described the trio as “hardcore” hijacking criminals. In court, Mkhize, with bruised face, walked up to the dock wearing the same clothes he had worn on Wednesday when he made his first appearance. He claimed he had been assaulted again when he was taken to his home by the police to verify his address. Motala issued a warning about irresponsible comments and threats made by some people on social media, including the threats made against Mveku. He said unfounded and damaging comments being spread through social media did not help the case. Mkhize was allegedly assaulted and kept in a cell without a blanket. Motala said that if the allegations were true, there would be no further problems because he would now be detained at Westville Prison for the duration of the case. The matter was adjourned to July18 for further investigation. Daily News