Green Number holders are respected as being among the most passionate runners of the race and who have completed 10 or more races. One of this year’s presenters, Clive Crawley, revealed how he came to wear the number 1 permanently. “I actually hadn’t planned on running Comrades until I met Morris Alexander. At the time he was a runner and, of course, today we know him as one of the founding organisers of the race. He convinced me to run. “My first race was in 1957 - I think my number then was 27. In the history of Comrades only five people have had the number 1. Morris was the first. He ran with it for a few years, but he had a bad injury and couldn’t continue. So he asked me if I’d like to wear it. So in 1960, I took over number 1. It was passed to me by friendship.” Crawley has run 42 Comrades and was the first runner to reach 40 finishes. He also finished in seventh and fifth place in 1961 and 1965 respectively, and at 67 still managed to complete his race in 8h36m22s. But running wasn’t his only interest. “For a long time I played rugby and hockey and I did the Dusi. I actually won the Dusi in 1966,” he said. Crawley worked on three main events a year. “I’d do the Dusi in January, Comrades in May and the Amashovashova Cycle Race in October. I sometimes ask myself, when did I have the time to work?” he quipped. “Every year I’d run my age. Now I’ve changed to cycling my age. This year, I’ll cycle 87km,” he said. Another Green Number achiever, Helen Lucre, performed a hat-trick between 1985 and 1987, becoming one of only three women to win the Comrades three years in a row. Her advice is: “Know your own ability and run according to that. And also try not to get carried away at the beginning with the excitement and the crowd. Do nothing differently from what you’ve done in your training.” This run marks the 60th anniversary of Jackie Mekler’s first win in 1958. Mekler went on to win the Comrades five times. At 86, he is the Comrades’s oldest surviving winner. When asked if ever he had felt as though he was reaching breaking point in a race, he said: “I seldom quit a race. One goes through that experience even when you are winning. It seems tiredness comes in different spells. A lot of it comes from the mind. But one’s own experience and determination comes from your own training. One just has to keep going. Things get better at times, and at other times they seem like they are getting worse. But the most important thing is to just keep going,” said Mekler. Bruce Fordyce, the most famous runner in the history of Comrades and holder of nine wins (five of those being record-setting runs), said when it came to encouraging runners going for the Green Number, there was not much more one could say to them. “They’ve run the race nine times, so you know what you’ve got to do, because you are doing it one more time.” He has kept on running Comrades because “it’s a great adventure”. “I haven’t run my last one yet, I will run again. Maybe for the 100th Comrades. But for now I’m just enjoying sitting back and enjoying the race and being part of the team that will be handing out Green Numbers,” he said. Daily News