At an executive committee meeting on Tuesday, the city accepted a feedback report on the programme that sought approval to increase the initial R131m budget which was approved in 2017, to R202m for the period in question. The DA and IFP abstained from the agenda item, but the ANC pushed ahead and agreed on the matter. DA exco member Heinz de Boer questioned incentivising an industry which had a “bad reputation” for breaking traffic laws and where enforcement of the rules was non-existent. ANC councillor Nelly Nyanisa came out in defence of the programme, saying the industry was black-dominated and that it had survived the apartheid system. “This is the only business that was started by black people and survived through thick and thin. We will give this incentive to the industry that we are proud of,” Nyanisa said. Another ANC council member, Mondli Mthembu, also defended the incentive, pointing out that there were criteria in selecting entrants and who won the incentive. He said there were “many behavioural” issues that would be monitored through the programme. A supplementary report on the programme seeking the approval of additional items that would facilitate the implementation of the plan was agreed on by the city. According to the report, participation in the programme was voluntary and some of its objectives was to promote the provision of better levels of service and safety to commuters and to improve the standard of public transport in the city. The increased budget, according to the report, would cater for the programme set-up and management, skills development, vehicle set-up, driver induction and training, vehicle decals, marketing and communications, vehicle tracking units, tracker data, incentives for drivers, VAT and contingency plans. The programme was officially launched in October 2017 after consultation with the industry’s leadership. A pilot of 500 vehicles was agreed upon and during this phase additional functions were identified to ensure the effectiveness and success of the programme. The costs of the additional activities were not factored into the original submission to the council. One of the functions was the installation of a tracking system on minibus taxis by the municipality. Drivers and owners would need to undergo training on various modalities like the vehicle tracking system as well as objectives and incentive payments processes. According to the funding requirements, qualifying operators from the 500 vehicles would receive R1000 cash or vouchers to this value each month. The number was expected to increase to R3 000 from April to June 2017/18 and to R5000 in 2019/2020. “Regional offices of the taxi industry will receive R8000 a month in this period to co-ordinate participating taxi associations in the region. Drivers of the month and runners up for each of the five regions will receive R5000 and R2500 respectively,” reads the report. The pilot stage included the consultation, registration, monitoring, contractual agreements and evaluation and payment of incentives categories. Daily News