Nine months after the destruction which gutted the top floor of the double-storey school, pupils are still being taught in several other buildings in the area including churches, the Austerville Community Hall and the Blue Roof Building. On Monday, several local businesses met to discuss the way forward. “The school has placed the Grade 6 students into the church across the road to assist us as there aren’t enough temporary classrooms available for them,” principal Collin Chan said. He said the fact that the pupils were scattered away from the school was not conducive to learning. Chan said the Department of Education had stepped in to provide the basics needed for teaching to continue while the public had donated items destroyed in the storm, such as computers. A member of the school governing body (SGB) said that not much schooling took place in the fourth term of last year because the building was in shambles. “The school’s current state is bad and has become a haven for drug users and vandalism. Pipes have been stolen, and there has been damage to the property”. The SGB member said they were also concerned about an infestation of bird lice in the damaged school block because it had become a home for pigeons. In an act of desperation, the school governing body turned to local comedian Carvin Goldstone hoping he could appeal to his fan base and help them raise funds. It was impossible for Goldstone to say no because Collingwood Primary was where his mom had started her teaching career many decades ago. In a video which went viral, he appealed to successful current and former residents of Wentworth, even those living overseas, asking them to contribute towards fixing the school. At the weekend, comedians from the area also held a show, and all the proceeds went to the school rebuilding kitty. “The fund-raiser was a roaring success, however lots of work is still needed to be done,” said Goldstone. Several businesses such as Nation Builders Supplies, the TJ Roof Group and Welton Investments met to discuss ways in which they could assist the school and also offered to employ members of the community on the project. Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana said that they did not have money to fix all the storm-damaged schools. He said his department had attended to the poorer schools and that they had “planned differently” for 2018/19. It was reported that the storm had affected 494 KZN schools. Daily News