In July, the province will receive 262 students who were part of 825 awarded bursaries to study medicine in Cuba ­between 2009 and 2015. The returning students are expected to complete the remaining 18 months of their training at universities in the country before undertaking community service. This week the National Treasury’s Emmanuel Pillay said the returning students posed another risk to the provincial department, because they would exert pressure on the budget. “They obviously need to be absorbed into the department, and this has consequences, not only for the compensation of employees, but for the tools of the trade,” Pillay said. He made the comments when his department and the KZN Treasury made presentations on the province’s expen­diture in the 2017-18 budget to the National Council of Provinces (NCOP). The Provincial Treasury head, Smiso Magagula, said the sustainability of the Cuban programme was an issue, especially when all the students finished their studies and did community service. “They have to be absorbed back into the system. The indication from the Department of Health, the last time I engaged with them last month, is that for the first year, which is 2019-20 and 2020-21, they should be able to absorb them without much pressure. “But, the outer year for them, they claim, is an issue. I’m not so sure how true that is, looking at the current scenario within the Health Department ” Magagula said. Finance MEC Belinda Scott said the Cuban programme had not been properly funded, and that it was expensive. “The talk at national level is instead of sending our children to Cuba, why not get Cuban ­doctors here to train our children,” she said. Scott also said the Cuban programme was coming to an end. “All we have now is the ­c­hildren graduate and come into the system. Over 200 this year and another 200 next year, and the balance in the third year,” she said. National Health Department spokesperson Foster Mohale said discussions were ongoing on whether Cuban doctors should be brought to the country to train students in medicine. According to Scott, the Cuban programme was a major concern because, apart from paying the students, there was still their training and accommodation. “The Department of Health has to look inwards for savings to fund this,” Scott said. This takes place against the backdrop of the provincial department, which underspent by R28m, and was now being saddled with R901m in unpaid invoices in March 2018. It paid R461m in medical negligence claims and had sourced R20.6m from within its savings to cover higher than anticipated costs for the under-budgeted Cuban programme during the year under review. The department has R10bn in contingent liabilities and R325m under-expenditure in compensation of employees, due to the failure to hire critical personnel. The department at present has 3 384 doctors and 27 944 nurses. The vacancy rate for medical officers stands at 15% and specialists at 30%. Daily News