ANC Youth League KwaZulu-Natal chairperson, Kwazi Mshengu, said SACP general-secretary Blade Nzimande and the party’s deputy-general secretary, Solly Mapaila, were failing to lead their organisation, but were eager to vilify Zuma. Mshengu was sharing a stage at the Durban City Hall with Zuma at the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) meeting on free education. Zuma issued a warning to his adversaries saying “they must not provoke me”. Mshengu told Zuma the youth league was worried about attacks being directed at him. “You have been attacked while you were still leading the country, and you continue to be attacked even when you are a pensioner. We are worried about the posture of the SACP, which is supposed to be the party of the working class but has assumed the role of being nothing else but persecutors of president Zuma.” On Sunday, Nzimande said attempts to fight the drive against corruption and state capture must not be underestimated. “In many ways former president Zuma is at the heart of this counter-revolutionary fightback, together with a circle of discredited individuals, many of whom are facing the likelihood of criminal prosecution. “KwaZulu-Natal has become a seed bed for this counter-revolutionary agenda, with tentacles spreading to other provinces,” Nzimande said. Mapaila accused Zuma of trying to destroy the ANC-led alliance, and the ANC of being “soft” on him. “The ANC must come out much more clearly in this regard so that they don’t just protect him because he is a former leader and he continues to do wrong things via the movement and associating himself with counter-revolutionaries,” Mapaila said. Mshengu said the SACP had spent three days discussing Zuma. “Then they called a media briefing and said they still hated Zuma,” he said. He said Zuma would never leave the ANC despite supporting Mazibuye Emasisweni, a pro-Zuma political force, claiming that he was advising them on how to form a new party that he would lead to next year’s general elections. Zuma, at the end of his two-hour speech, had stern words for those provoking him. “I have been keeping quiet when I was president of the country with respect to them, not that I don’t have anything to say. “I want to warn them they must keep quiet. They must discuss their organisation and not me because I have things to say about their organisation and themselves,” he said. Zuma is due to appear in the Durban High Court tomorrow to face charges related to fraud, racketeering and money laundering. SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said the party was concerned about people who were using Zuma’s name to form a new political party, and insisted that Zuma should distance himself from such people. “This call is both reasonable and revolutionary. The SACP dismisses Mshengu’s utterances. Political education will be the best way of addressing them (ANCYL),” said Mashilo. Daily News