“They say we are divided, we are about to split, but you write the DA off at your great peril. We have raised stronger support in every election, with South Africans running towards us,” he said. Steenhuisen said the country “dodged a bullet” with President Cyril Ramaphosa replacing Jacob Zuma, but encouraged South Africans to remain alert under the “Ramaphoria”. “We must not get ahead of ourselves, this is not a change of a political party, it’s a change of the head. “The people who sit behind President Ramaphosa in Parliament are the same people who supported and enabled state capture. Today it’s like no one ever supported Zuma,” he said. He said South Africans should hold Ramaphosa accountable, and not be complacent with “Thuma Mina and walks on the promenade”. “What we don’t see is a plan to get South Africa out of the current economic problems. “There are commissions and task teams set up, but nothing really happens on the ground. It’s these bureaucratic merry-go-rounds that got us into trouble in the first place; we need a concrete plan to create jobs,” he said. South Africans deserved politics of belief and politicians they could believe in, and voting for the DA would lead for a better life for all, he said. Healthcare, poor quality education, the rot at state-owned enterprises, load shedding, rising fuel prices, stagnant economic growth and a lack of jobs were some of the key issues any government party should fix. Steenhuisen made an example about how the DA-governed Western Cape created new jobs while the economy was contracting. “We can get people back to work again and restore dignity with the correct policies,” he said. Steenhuisen’s meeting formed part of the party’s campaign to bring the ANC’s support below 50% in KwaZulu-Natal. The DA said the ANC had brought the province to a standstill with their factional infighting, resulting in bloodshed and stalling of service delivery. The ANC had failed to elect a permanent structure after its elective conference was halted by a High Court interdict on behalf of disgruntled members. But despite the once-united province previously contributing the lion’s share of votes for the party nationally riddled by infighting, political analysts believed the DA’s plan to drop the ANC below 50% was a pipe dream. The ANC got 64.52%, while the DA only managed 12.76% in the previous national elections. “The DA has no message that puts it in a better position than the ANC in KZN, especially in the majority of the province, which is rural,” political analyst Thabani Khumalo said. However, he believed that because some viewed former president Jacob Zuma’s recall as unfair, it could benefit the IFP. “Part of ANC votes came from people who followed a particular leader; they have never been conscientised by the ANC; they are IFP members within the ANC, and now that that leader is gone, they are likely to go back to the organisation that they belong to,” Khumalo said. Another political analyst, Bheki Mngomezulu, said ANC infighting would not translate into votes for the DA. “The DA has its own internal problems; it is unlikely it can capitalise on ANC KZN infighting.” Daily News