The villain mentality has deposed the wisdom gleaned from Biblical scripts, and implanted gun seeds together with shady personas, turning South Africa into a home of tears, bloodshed, fear and indignation. I once read a novel called Macbeth by William Shakespeare where the theme was “fair is foul and foul is fair”. This novel gave an insight into how people walk into evil and how they are eventually caught. In this generation, evil, like crime, is being celebrated by society. Criminals are treated like kings because society tolerates and fears them. In this current situation, where will I raise my children and build a safe house for my wife in the future? I am scared to pursue a career in engineering as it requires your whole attention, because all I will have to think about is the safety of my family. How am I going to live in peace when I know that gunshots have turned into a new hit song in the streets? And by the look of things, the vision I have of my future is bleak and disturbing. South Africa has demonstrated a dramatic growth in crimes such as assaults, rapes, car hijackings, kidnappings and murders, which seem to turn our society into a jungle where the survival of the fittest prevails. The current crime rate has tilted our lifestyles and restricted our freedoms in society. We aren’t different from birds in a cage, where every move we make is deeply calculated and we are always suspicious of what is happening at our backs. Many of us come from slums, broken families and other circumstances that we aren’t proud of. The need to belong and the lust to have the power to change every weakness in our lives are the main drivers behind committing these crimes. Many South African parents dump their children at a juvenile age. As life doesn’t come with instructions and guidance, how are these children supposed to learn about life? And as much as pain is a lack of understanding, it can be the most addictive drug in the human brain. When this drug thickens in the bloodstream, a person may seek closure, and when they see it slipping, they relapse more forcefully. In this way, people called criminals are born. The current state of South Africa isn’t sound. The future is very scary, with crime suffocating the air. I don’t see a future of living a happy, peaceful and successful life happening in this republic. Daily New