They also confiscated five boats that have allegedly been used in poaching activities. The department said, in a media statement, it would not just deal with illegal harvesters of marine resources, but also with illegal buyers. The department urged traders to buy marine living resources from legal sellers and called on all communities to work together to restrict poaching and illegal trade. On May 24, Westville police officers arrested five men at the Pavilion shopping centre for the illegal possession of 575 East Coast rock lobsters. “The suspects, aged between 19 and 51, were found in possession of 575 East Coast rock lobsters,” said SAPS Colonel Thembeka Mbhele. The department said they also confiscated a vehicle, freezer and other items. Ministry spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana said the suspects appeared at the Pinetown Magistrate’s Court. They were released on bail and the case was adjourned for further investigation. Nkwanyana said a number of measures had been put in place to restrict poaching and illegal trade of these resources. “We are increasing the capacity along the coastline. We are working with the police and are working on a Memorandum of Understanding with other stakeholders for assistance in restricting poaching. “We are going to embark on massive road shows, engaging communities staying along coasts to teach them about the protection of marine species and how to obtain licences for fishing,” Nkwanyana said. He said Section 13 of the Marine Living Resources Act allowed recreational fishers to harvest eight lobsters a day with a recreational permit. There is a size limit of 65mm. He also said permitted prawn trawlers frequent the East Coast regularly and foreign vessels pass through the East Coast as a safe passage. The East Coast rock lobster is listed in both green and red on the Southern African Seafood Initiative (Sassi) list. After the big haul of East Coast rock lobster at the Pavilion, Pavitray Pillay, Sassi manager, said the World Wildlife Fund was always concerned about illegal fishing, which placed further pressure on fish stock. “There are challenges associated with non-compliance and poaching, which could add extra stress to the population,” Pillay said. Daily News