Durban - IN South Africa, unemployment and poverty have become a second skin. In a population of 51 million, 7.5 million South Africans are out of work. However, what is more worrying is that 72.3% of the 51 million are the youth, the supposed “future leaders”. Due to this, I ask myself: Where do I see myself in the future? Unemployment has put pressure on young people like me to work hard so we don’t end up on the streets. That’s why I see myself having completed high school in about eight months, with excellent results. This is due to the fact universities now choose students by the quality of their passes. Your matric results will always follow you like your shadow. Since we are living in the 21st century, many companies and organisations are offering bursaries to high achievers. As a hard worker, I see myself getting a bursary and going to university to pursue my studies. One thing that triggers unemployment is that a lot of young people choose careers that are no longer in demand. You find people sitting at home with degrees and doing nothing. That is mainly why I have chosen a scarce-skill career as it guarantees my employment. In about four years I see myself having completed my bachelor’s degree in Accounting Science and working towards my honours degree. Becoming a Chartered Accountant (CA) is not easy, because you have to write two board exams. I picture myself as a registered CA (SA) in seven years. Companies no longer hire people with no work experience. Becoming a CA will guarantee my employment for me because the seven years of study includes a three-year training programme. After I’ve become a CA (SA), I will be able to work anywhere in the world, increasing my chances of employment. I also picture myself becoming an entrepreneur a few years after working as a CA. According to statistics from the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, for the 200 largest companies listed on the JSE in 2013, 30% of chief executives were CA (SA) graduates. After my business is successful, I also want to invest in programmes that will improve the work experience of young people and enlighten them about scarce-skill jobs. I am a firm believer that we can build a better South Africa if we work together. I want to have a very successful business, so I can provide more jobs for young people. In this way, the unemployment rate is decreased. I encourage young people out there to work hard and research their careers wisely. No one wants to spend years studying to end up sitting at home. Knowledge is power and fortune favours the bold. Daily News