Durban -The IFP has called for metal detectors to be installed at schools in KwaZulu-Natal following reports that pupils were smuggling dangerous weapons such as knives to school. The recent reports of gang fights and faction fights at some of the provinces schools,  was a concern that needed swift intervention from the Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana, the IFP said in a statement. The call was however shifted by the department who argued that the issues raised were a "societal matter" that required the intervention of all education stakeholders. A similar call by teacher unions in the province for the deployment of at least two security guards at public schools over the years has not materialised. Thembeni Madlopha-Mthethwa, IFP spokesperson on Education said the uncontrollable levels of gangsterism and the uncontrollable levels of undisciplined learners, fights between learners and smuggling of dangerous weapons to school was getting out of hand. “Gangsterism is the order of the day in most schools in the province.pupils attend schools with dangerous weapons and drugs in their bags, while others become serious drug mules and even merchants. This problem is bigger and calls for more than just cooperation between police and school management,” said Madlopha-Mthethwa. She said this was however not the responsibility of the school alone. “Time is over for parents to push their responsibilities to school management or expect teachers to change the bad habits of their children. Parents must be hands on in disciplining their children,” she said. An ongoing conflict between boys from eSigodini area and Caluza area, who are pupils at Smero Secondary School in Pietermaritzburg had resulted in the death of a pupil who was stabbed at school on March 8. Sbusiso Mzili, a grade 11 pupil was rushed to Edendale hospital where he later died. Last Thursday, the Daily News reported that at Wyebank Secondary School pupils clashed with a private security company employed by the school to ensure that the school was free of dangerous weapons. One of the parents who spoke to Daily News said the school had hired a security company to instil discipline as the situation of pupils caught smuggling drugs and weapons to school was getting out of hand. There are also reports of ongoing faction fights between pupils from different villages in Melmoth on the northern KwaZulu-Natal, which had resulted to some pupils missing school. In April 35 pupils were suspended at a Ladysmith school following a fight that resulted in the hospitalisation of one of the pupils. The fight broke out between two groups at the school’s assembly area. Knives were brandished and stones flew between the two groups. Kwazi Mthethwa, Department of Education spokesperson said while the department took the issue of school violence seriously, installing metal detectors at schools was not the responsibility of the department, but of the police. “We believe that school violence and drugs is a societal matter that needs everyone’s attention. It begins with a parent making sure that their child do not take a weapon or drugs to school by checking their school bags before they leave for school. Making schools safe is everyone’s responsibility including the IFP,” said Mlthethwa. Daily News 