Durban - Preventing plastic pollution and encouraging solutions for healthier oceans is the theme for this year's World Oceans Day. The South African Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa) held an exhibition which promoted safe seas and clean oceans at the SA Agulhas II Open Day at the Transnet Cruise Terminal (Durban Harbour). To deliver on their mandate to prevent pollution from ships, Samsa is charged with the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (Marpol), which covers the prevention of pollution of the marine environment by ships from operational or accidental causes. Sobantu Tilayi, the chief operating officer at Samsa, said: “People rely on shipping every single day as the most cost-effective and fuel-efficient way to transport essential raw materials, commodities and consumer goods. We have to make sure that shipping has a minimal negative impact on the ocean and atmospheric environment.” He said South Africa had a robust safety and pollution response framework and was a leader in much of the science and development associated with eliminating pollution on the continent. Jone Porter, uShaka Marine World’s director of education, said they would be doing their bit towards creating awareness of the conservation of oceans by continuing with regular clean-ups of Durban beaches throughout the week. She added that members of the public should not be overwhelmed by their lack of knowledge over what they could do to help prevent ocean pollution. Porter said the most common things found on beaches during clean-ups were plastic straws, polystyrene food containers and cups, plastic bottles and plastic bottle caps. People are urged to not use plastic straws at the beach, or to throw them in the ocean because they are not recyclable and cause problems for marine life. “People must honestly ask themselves, ‘do I really need this straw to drink a cold drink?’” she said. “South Africa is on the right path now - it takes just one person wanting to do something differently to make a change.” Daily News