The call followed another mosque attack in Malmesbury outside Cape Town on Thursday, in which three people were killed and several injured. For people in Verulam, the incident brought back memories of the attack at their mosque a month ago. Three knife-wielding men entered the Imam Hussain Mosque and, after praying, attacked three people, including the maulana, before setting the mosque alight and fleeing. Abbas Essop, who lived near the mosque and who rushed there to help, died soon after arriving in hospital. Days later, a device believed to be a bomb was found at the mosque. Azaad Seedat, chairperson of the Imam Hussain Mosque, said “everything is back to normal” after the attack in May, but they were still busy with repairs. “Everyone is in a festive mood despite the attack,” he said. “There has been a bit of a change. In fact, more people are attending the mosque,” Seedat said. “A lot of people are attending, actually. The attack did not have a negative effect on the congregation.” He said they would like to have more security measures but that was a “work in progress” because money was tight. “We are still waiting for the police to do their part. They are dragging their feet, but the Qur’an says ‘be patient’. We don’t want the police to be hasty in their investigations,” he said. Muslim Judicial Council spokesperson Mishka Darries said it had been difficult for the Muslim community because they had not faced such brutal attacks before. “Two blows in the space of one month,” said Darries, who is unable to fathom the motive behind the attacks. South African Muslim Network chairperson Faisal Suliman said the attack in Cape Town could have been an issue between Somalians, because the attacker killed a Somalian and the local worshipper was “just collateral damage”. But he said they did not know the motive behind the Verulam mosque attack. “People are concerned because of crime in the area. Homes are attacked when the men are at mosque,” he said. Suliman said people were still going to celebrate Eid despite the attacks. “It’s been a jovial and spiritual mood. There’s no tension other than the fear of crime.” The Hawks could not be reached for comment at the time of publication. Daily News