Sithole was appointed for 12 months, from June 1. Sithole, who was told to leave by mayor Zandile Gumede two weeks before the end of his contract in December 2016, would be tasked with bringing stability to Prasa. “Congratulations are in order for his appointment and, understanding his capabilities, he will definitely turn Prasa’s fortunes around. It’s a great achievement that he will be assisting the national government in addressing challenges in the organisation. He is a man who operates by the book,” Nxumalo said. He said the clean audit the city received from the auditor-general while Sithole was at the helm of the more than R30 billion budget between 2016 and 2017 was testimony to his capabilities. While addressing the transport portfolio committee in Parliament yesterday, Minister Blade Nzimande defended Sithole’s appointment as the DA criticised the move. Manny De Freitas, the DA’s spokesperson for transport, said Sithole had no recognisable experience in the rail sector to be able to turn around the fortunes of Prasa. He also claimed that Sithole, as city manager, had racked up almost R2 million in debt, had defaulted on his income tax and was slow to take action against tender irregularities. This was scotched by Nxumalo, who said clean audits were achieved by doing things by the book. Nzimande said Sithole had no criminal record and was never arrested for corruption. Sithole told the Daily News yesterday that he had confidence in the calibre of Prasa employees. He said he was sensitive to the various issues affecting it and other state-owned entities. “We are trying to mobilise the organisation. We will put in systems to address issues highlighted in the Public Protector’s report and by the auditor- general. Another focus will be the modernisation of the rail system. We will also seek to address issues of the supply chain management, corruption and tender irregularities,” he said. Asked if he was not concerned about the number of chief executives who had left Prasa unceremoniously under allegations of bad management, Sithole said: “I’m aware of the bad background and publicity but I’m looking at the positives. I’m only a couple of days into the job so I’m meeting different stakeholders to get to understand all the existing challenges. “We will be taking into account all reports by previous CEOs, if there are any, and thorough scrutiny will be employed to ensure that everything is attended to.” In her report “Derailed”, released in August 2015, former public protector Thuli Madonsela investigated allegations of maladministration relating to financial mismanagement, tender irregularities and appointment irregularities against Prasa. It implicated former chief executive Lucky Montana in financial mismanagement. Sithole’s appointment follows the removal of Mthuthuzeli Swart as acting chief executive in April reportedly because of allegations of mismanagement against him. Simo Lushaba was acting chief executive before Sithole. Collins Letsoalo was shown the door last year after he allegedly increased his salary by 350%. In 2016, Letsoalo said he had been briefed by employees at the Durban branch about various concerns including victimisation of junior staff members, nepotism and corruption. “These and the Public Protector’s report are the issues that require attention, taking into consideration that government is investing R170 billion over the next 10 years to modernise the rail system. Steve Harris, secretary-general of the United National Transport Union, said he failed to understand the logic behind the appointment. “We are not trying to nullify his capabilities, we are just perturbed because he has no real experience. Worse, the organisation needs stability and he’s got only 12 months. How is he supposed to bring that stability?” Harris said. Daily News