On World Refugee Day, leader of the Somali Association of South Africa Muhidin Badel said social exclusion maintained an “us and them” environment which led to tensions and sometimes xenophobic violence. “It’s important that we are educated on South African languages and culture. When we can communicate with the people, some of the problems will be solved. In other countries it is compulsory,” he said. Badel, who has been in the country for 20 years, said the integration of refugees would ensure social cohesion and peaceful existence with South Africans. “We need to learn about each other and understand one another,” he said. Badel said “most” South Africans were good people and that he had never been singled out and mistreated. Referring to recent tensions between foreign business owners and the North Region Business Association (Norba), he remained concerned about the resurgence of xenophobic violence. “What I’ve faced is what all foreigners come across, xenophobic violence and the impact it has on your business and social life are devastating. “When we live together, we understand each other and seeing each other as neighbours, brothers and sisters will make it difficult for us to hurt each other on the basis of where one was born,” he said. Norba - operating in the INK area made up of Inanda, Ntuzuma and KwaMashu townships - had instructed foreign business owners to shut their businesses and leave the area. The association had accused foreign nationals of unfair business practices and suffocating township economies. But after the intervention of Premier Willies Mchunu it was decided that tuckshops would go through a verification process as part of a plan to regulate trade in these townships. Badel remained hopeful that government interventions would continue to stifle any tensions that might arise. “We fled persecution in our birth countries and we are grateful that South Africa allows us to stay. There are challenges but they can be solved with us living among each other and not separately,” he said. Daily News