SACP general secretary and former Zuma loyalist Blade Nzimande, alongside the party’s first deputy secretary Solly Mapaila, vowed at a press briefing in Joburg that they would continue fighting to bring Zuma to his knees. Supporters of Zuma are planning to hold a vigil on Thursday night outside the Durban High Court, where he will make his second appearance on fraud and corruption charges related to the arms deal the next day. National Funeral Practitioners Association of SA (Nafupa-SA) secretary Nkosentsha Shezi said the SACP had lost its credibility as the vanguard of the revolution. “The SACP died in April 1993 with Chris Hani and all that we have left now are careerists, who are hell-bent to get deployments into the state,” said Shezi. Shezi said Zuma’s charges were politically motivated. “Not long ago Zuma was facing the same charges and Blade Nzimande was shouting that Zuma had committed no crime, and it was all political. Nothing has changed with these charges,” said Shezi. The lesser-known KZN-based Mazibuye Emasisweni group, at the weekend, claimed they were in consultation with Zuma to start a new political party which he would lead. But Mapaila said Zuma had not done enough to distance himself from Mazibuye. “He must say ‘I don’t agree with what you are trying to do, even if you may profess to support me in my current troubles but this is what I stand for and therefore stop what you are doing in my name’,” said Mapaila. ANCYL provincial spokesperson Mandla Shange also weighed in on the SACP allegations that the province was a “seedbed for the counter-revolution”. He said the SACP lacked facts and had relied on its own perceptions. “Their posture has nothing, except that they want to please Cyril Ramaphosa even if it compromises the principles of the alliance,” said Shange. “Last week, Zuma was very vocal in saying that he is still ANC and would continue to campaign for the ANC, when he was campaigning for the ANC in Nkandla,” said Mshengu. During a press briefing, which churches had called on Monday to outline their programme to support Zuma on Thursday and Friday, Black First Land First leader Andile Mngxitama said Nzimande was a bulldog of white monopoly capital, who had forgotten that he once supported Zuma on the same corruption charges. “The media must ask him ‘Nzimande, you said president Zuma has been prosecuted for political reasons on these charges, what has changed?’” said Mngxitama. Mapaila yesterday said Zuma had, through his state capture conduct, proven that he was not the victim that they thought he was when the party previously defended him. “President Zuma admitted so when he went to court and decided not to challenge some of the things that the State had put against him. His court papers say that, when he refused to take forward some of the processes. They can simply check the court documents, and his withdrawal in Bloemfontein,” said Mapaila. Daily News