Durban - The Federation for Radical Economic Transformation (FFRET) has denied targeting building projects by Durban businessman, Vivian Reddy. The federation said that they were, in fact, working with Reddy and hoped to learn from him. “(Reddy) Understood our frustrations, even when authorities of power claimed to deal with us, he stood firm and boldly declared his empathy and further vowed his business support in nurturing those who are previously disadvantaged. We wish for a programme to be fast-tracked and hope it will provide a good platform for other organised businesses to learn from Mr.Reddy,”  Malusi Zondi, Secretary General of FFRET said in a statement. Zondi said that the federation was an amalgamation of 35 business forums that were formed after a business Indaba last year. They want enforcement of the Preferential Procurement Policy Framework Act (PPPFA) on all the bid committees. The Act provides for any company that wants to tender to a municipality to have a minimum level 2 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (scorecard). The 30 per cent procurement policy of government contracts for SMEs must be reviewed in favour of an 80/20 split for black SMEs - direct subcontracting with the municipality on 30 per cent of projects, and not with the main contractor, he said. Zondi said small businesses and local communities were not radicals or thugs but wanted the upliftment of small businesses and the communities within the proximity of the project areas. The forums had gained not notoriety in recent years after using strong-arm tactics to stop several multi-billion rand projects around KwaZulu-Natal, demanding a slice of the contracts. In April, Reddy slapped FFRET with an interim court interdict following their disruption of the construction at the multi-billion rand Oceans Umhlanga development. Oceans Umhlanga, Double Ring Seven Trading, and Edison Power KZN, filed an urgent application to interdict FFRET - the first respondent - and eight of its affiliates to stop disrupting operations at the company’s construction sites around Durban. The Durban High Court ordered the respondents, including Delangokubona Business Forum to stop threatening, intimidating, harassing or assaulting the applicants’ employees, contractors, subcontractors and any other persons employed by the applicants. Daily News