Sebode Mosemene’s baby boy, Sikhosana, died on March 26 and was taken to the mortuary. A day later Mosemene was told his child’s body was missing. He had already taken out a loan to hire a car from Lesotho to fetch the body for burial in that country. “Seeing that the department is not taking my loss seriously, and my suspicion that they treat me this way because I’m not a South African, I have engaged lawyers to handle the matter for me. What caring department would not provide counselling to the victims of something like this? My wife has become sick and had to remain at home. She has not come to terms with the loss of our baby,” he said. Mosemene said the last call he received from the department was an offer to repay the loan he had taken out for the car hire. “I got suspicious when they wanted me to sign for the payment. I said no, I’d have to consult my family first. What I thought was that they could say they had compensated me for my loss. I’ve left this in the hands of my lawyers now.” Thandi Sima, of Thandi Sima and Associates, confirmed they were representing Mosemene in the matter. Sima said they were still waiting for a court date. “How the matter is being handled is suspicious. Documents signed by a doctor confirm that the baby was in their hands, so that means they are responsible for the disappearance of the body. It feels like they are taking advantage of this family,” she said. Department spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda said there were two concurrent investigations, by the police and department, being held into the matter. She said progress had been made in both probes. “A provisional report has been issued on the departmental investigation. The department is awaiting finalisation of the process of sourcing an external service provider to assist with polygraph tests. A meeting is scheduled for the first week of July to get an update on the ongoing police investigation. “Contrary to what is being projected by the media, the department would like to emphasise that its management is in constant liaison with the family. The department has put forward a proposal regarding reparations on the costs associated with the transportation logistics which were borne by the family. The department was informed that a broader family discussion would decide on its proposal. No final decision has been made yet by the family,” Mafunda said. Provincial police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said their investigation was ongoing. Daily News