Durban - Teachers at Wentworth's troubled Austerville Primary School arrived at school to find they've been locked out on Tuesday. It is believed the gate was chained as part of a protest to keep the school on complete lockdown until the KZN Department of Education intervenes on several issues at the school. At an emergency meeting at the school on Saturday, parents instituted a vote of no confidence in the School Governing Body (SGB) and voted to keep children at home until Wednesday. Since May 25, protesters have locked teachers and pupils out of the school periodically. They allege there has been ongoing mismanagement at the school; including unaccounted for funds, teacher shortages, and that there has been no principal based there for two years. A major issue has been a disconnect between the former SGB and the newly elected SGB, where the former body has apparently failed to hand over financial records and documents in order for the new body to take over. It is believed that the school has had no audited financial reports for the past two years. The school is also said to be in financial problems with an unpaid utility bill of more than R300 000 in arrears, and some suppliers and service providers were also not paid.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. SGB employed teachers and support staff were retrenched because the school has no budget to pay them. This has led to classes being without teachers and the school without cleaners. Education officials addressed protesters at their gathering outside the school on Monday and also when parents moved their protest to the department offices in Umbilo. However, parents have complained that the department is "dragging" its feet in resolving the issue. "The school will remain on full lockdown until they take action," said one protestor. It is believed the department met with the SGB Chairman and members of the body on Monday. Officials from the department have not responded to questions sent by the Daily News. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, a KZN police spokesperson, said cases of illegal gathering have been opened relating to Monday's protests. No arrests had been made. Daily News