On Sunday, a Sama spokesperson said artists from KZN prove every year that they make a “unique” offering to the South African music industry. Durban-born artist Shashika Mooruth walked off with the international achievement award for her folk music album Jogan, her duet Rafta Rafta with Sonu Nigam, and her album Krishna, The Flute Player. “Receiving the award has built my faith even more. My journey started in my childhood in 1971 and we had no infrastructure to study Indian music in South Africa. I had to leave after my university studies to pursue my dream (in India). The wait was long but I never gave up,” said Mooruth. Highlights of her career include meeting and working with music greats Kishore Kumar and Grammy nominee Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan Saheb. But there were also challenges “surviving” the Indian music industry. “There were times when I felt disappointed, frustrated and even humiliated because it is a huge challenge, but my growing spiritual strength helped me overcome. Finally I took up the challenge and launched my own music label, Urja Music, and never looked back. If you believe in yourself, you’re unstoppable.” KZN’s Distruction Boyz had the crowd in a frenzy when they were declared winners of the public-voted record of the year for their hit Omunye. Group member Thobani Mgobhozi said: “We never in our wildest dreams thought that we’d bag such an award. The first thing that came to mind was the glory of God and we were happy.” Commenting on what he thought it was about KZN musicians that saw locals scoring big at the Samas year in and year out, he joked: “It’s in the water”, before adding: “We have the vibe and try to support one another.” Durban songbird Shekhinah walked off with the newcomer of the year, album of the year and female artist of the year awards for her debut album Rose Gold. Nhlanhla Sibisi, chief executive of the Recording Industry of South Africa, said talent coming out of KZN was uniquely creative. You can see the complete list of winners on www.samusicawards.co.za Daily News