They marched from Wentworth’s Ogle Road grounds to Engen Refinery’s main gate saying that communities like Wentworth, Merebank, Lamontville, Glebelands and others were being short-changed by Engen. Frank Alexander, a Community Liaison Officer under the SDB Community Development Trust, said: “Of all the refineries in South Africa, Engen Refinery does not have a training centre for the youth.” He said as far back as 2016, community representatives had proposed a Youth Development Multipurpose Centre to cater for skills development and assist with poverty alleviation, socio economic ills and a lack of resources to empower and develop communities across the South Durban Basin. Alexander said there seemed to be no move towards this centre and they believed it was because Engen’s response in that initial meeting was “that they can’t build anything in Wentworth because crime levels are high and it will cost too much”. The document he referred the Daily News to was labelled “17th meeting of the Engen Community Stakeholder Forum” on November 22, 2016. A note regarding the response from a man, who is allegedly an Engen representative, on the centre proposal read: “Comments (were) that this project needs an in-depth feasibility study. Furthermore, is this project sustainable? It is idealistic given the diversity and current discord within the SDB community. Additionally, the high rate of crime and vandalising would be a concern. Security will cost and this could become a financial challenge.” Alexander said: “There is tons of research that has been conducted about the pollution from the refinery in relation to the high levels of cancer, leukemia and asthma cases in the community. It (the centre) is the least they can do We also want a 24-hour clinic built in the community for this very reason.” Other points included in the memorandum called for:  As a company, we have employed more than 70% of our labour requirements for refinery outages and shutdowns from people resident in the South Durban area. Furthermore, Engen is a proud contributor to the upliftment of the South Durban community as an employer, partner to local businesses, bursary sponsor and social investor. Our social investment in the area currently includes the following:   Engen also conducts learnership programmes, which are designed to respond specifically to scarce skills within the oil industry. In 2017, we offered learnership opportunities covering, among others, apprenticeships for fitter and turners, diesel mechanics, electricians and instrument technicians. Engen is proud of its commitment to being a caring and responsible partner of the South Durban community and we will continue to work together with the local residents in various meaningful ways. 