Durban - A Durban North resident is so upset that English singer and songwriter Ed Sheeran - like many international acts - will bypass Durban on his South African tour next year that he has started an online petition in the hopes of getting Thinking Out Loud hit-maker to reconsider his decision. And the petition which was started on Monday afternoon has already got over 1 500 signatures and is growing. Jason Liebenberg, 29, said he was fed up with Durban being overlooked by concert organisers and hoped that enough people signed the petition will get Sheeran to add Durban to the South African leg of his world tour. Sheeran announced this week that he will perform at the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on March 23 and at the Cape Town Stadium on March 27 next year. Liebenberg said the decision not to come to Durban has left many local fans mad. “Once we have a sizeable amount of signatures from excited fans who live in Durban and wish for Ed Sheeran to perform here, I will approach BIG Concerts, as well as the Ed Sheeran management team and hopefully convince them to entertain our request for a Durban show,” Liebenberg said. Liebenberg hopes that the petition could also lead to Durban getting more big name acts to include the city on their touring itinerary. “I think that Durban is always overlooked as when acts do eventually perform here, the concerts fall on weeknights. I also feel that the interest of the Durban crowd is based upon certain acts which don't appeal to a wide audience base, for example Rodrigues, UB40 and so on. I have absolutely no doubt that if Ed Sheeran had announced a Durban show that it would sell out at Moses Mabhida Stadium,” he said. People can sign the petition here: Change.org Sheeran has 42 upcoming tours for this year in countries like The Netherlands, Belgium, France, Detroit and San Francisco to name a few. Notably, 15 of his 42 tours for 2018 are sold out. The general sale of the tickets is set to take place in Cape Town on Thursday 28 June 2018 from 9:00 am while tickets will go on sale in Johannesburg on Friday 29 June 2018 at 9:00 am. Ticket prices - Tickets at the FNB stadium will range from R455 to R1585 - Tickets at the Cape Town stadium will range from R395 to R1360 The tour will be presented by AEG and Big Concerts. Daily News 