Durban - The possibility of load shedding will increase on during the evening, the power utility warned on Monday. According to Eskom the increase in demand occurs during the peak periods between 5pm and 9pm when many people are using electricity at the same time. In a statement on Monday, Eskom said that should rotational load shedding be implemented it would be for a period up to four hours. "Eskom is due to advise if rotational load shedding will be conducted in either stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 or stage 4, dependent on the capacity of shortage," the statement said. Stage one requires 1000MW to be rotationally load shed nation-wide, stage 2 requires 2000 MW, stage 3 requires 3000 MW and stage 4 calls for up to 4000 MW to rotationally load shed nationally in that given period. This means that load shedding may or may not occur in certain areas based on the demand as load shedding is conducted as a measure of last resort to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout, the power utility said. During this time it is expected that workers of the plant will work longer hours to ensure that electricity is distributed equally. "Recovery teams at Eskom have been on high alert to stabilise the power system and to return the generation plant to normal as quickly as possible. Eskom believes that the power station will take approximately ten days to recover from the effects of the recent strike at the power station. The estimated ten-day prognosis for full restoration is due to the effects of the industrial action which interrupted continuous processes at the power plants". Eskom encouraged residents and businesses to use electricity sparingly to ease the demand of electricity, switch off geysers during the day especially during peak periods as well as all non-essential lighting and electrical appliances to assist in reducing demand. Consumers are advised to keep checking their load shedding schedules on the their respective municipality site or alternatively contact  0860 037 566. Daily News