Andrea Weiss, media manager of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) South Africa, said eight million tons of plastic were dumped into the oceans every year. “That’s the equivalent of a full truck-load of rubbish being dumped into the ocean every minute,” she said. Weiss said this year’s World Environment Day was themed #BeatPlasticPollution. John Duncan, head of WWF South Africa’s marine programme, said humans had spent centuries extracting and using the planet’s resources, only to throw leftovers into the ocean or landfills. “Not too surprisingly, our natural ecosystems are now reaching the point where they can no longer absorb our waste and we are starting to witness natural feedback cycles in the form of climate change, species’ extinctions and oceans increasingly teeming with more plastic than fish in volume,” he said. In statistics provided by the organisation, it cited research from the University of Cape Town and UN that said South Africa was in 11th place out of 20 countries to release plastic waste into the sea and that 94% of all litter on beaches was plastic, 77% of which was packaging. Plastics killed 100000 marine animals every year. Niven Reddy, campaign researcher at environmental justice organisation, groundWork, said there was a huge dependence on fossil fuels and coal. He said it was difficult beating plastic pollution when 4% of energy used went towards plastic production. Reddy also asked for there to be vigilance from the community because many companies which were some of the biggest polluters, would use the day to do “greenwashing” and show off their green initiatives. He said there was a need to break free from dependence on plastic. “We need to stop thinking that we can produce and dispose,” Reddy said. Initiatives like those of waste pickers, who go through landfill sites looking for recyclable plastic, does help because they are able to earn an income in this business. Desmond D’Sa, of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, said: “It’s all in our hands. From what we see, things are getting worse.” Educating adults and children was important, he said. D’Sa said 10 years ago, he believed that things would be much better than they are now. He said it was about caring for one another, and other species that humans shared the Earth with. “We have one planet and we need to take care of it,” he said. Daily News