Durban - A petition to bring singer and songwriter Ed Sheeran to Durban has reached its target of 5 000 signatures just one day after it was put up. A Durban North resident, Jason Liebenberg, 29 who created the petition said he was over the moon by the response to his petition. He said he hoped the petition would get the Perfect hit-maker to perform in Durban following his announcement this week that he would only perform in Cape Town and Johannesburg in March next year as part of his world tour. “Durban has been left out once again, let's create some noise in order for BIG Concerts to bring Ed Sheeran to a no doubt, sold out, Durban!” Liebenberg said on his petition on the website, change.org. As word spread of Liebenberg's petition, social media has been abuzz with people commenting on his drive and getting and sharing the petition. Read: Petition to get Ed Sheeran to Durban growing “There is absolutely no reason for Durban to be left out. We have the beautiful stadium and the beautiful people that will sell this concert out too," Bianca Thayer said on Change.org. This is what people had to say on the Daily News Facebook page: Michelle Sander: "The historical data regarding Durban is people don't buy tickets resulting in show's being unprofitable to concert organisers". Cheryl Coldrey: "These Durban people should catch a wake up". Armand Bruneau: "Agree every time there is a concert in DBN there is zero support". Razia Badat:  "I really want this in dbn as much as the petition is going so as much all we all want and pray can everyone also find some time to inbox big concerts because they respond and read it... Lets give this a try and some extra motivation (sic)". Jan Johns: "We go to many concerts and find quality shows are always booked out. So when you talk of Durban audiences not going perhaps it is because we get too few quality shows and a lot of second rate ones". Rick Crouch: "Then when the decision is made to come to Durban everyone will be too lazy to show up., as usual". Carmel Ward: "The event organisers Big Concerts always do this no Durban shows they have done it with quite a few artists already. I have had countless fights last year #BigConcerts (sic)". Trevor Anderson: "The problem is Durban folk always leave everything to last min to book tickets hence no promoter will risk losing out hence no big shows for Durban". Big Concerts could not be reached for comment at the time of publishing. Daily News 