Durban -  A Comrades Marathon volunteer who was the victim of a hit-and-run on the race day on Sunday remains in a critical condition after his the incident in Ashburton, Pietermaritzburg Johan Doubell (51) from Cleland, Pietermaritzburg, and his fiancé Erika Kapp were setting up their water stand at around 4am on Sunday morning at the bottom of Polly Shortts at Ashburton, when a bakkie drove into the stand, injuring Doubell and three others. Doubell's fiance, Erika Kapp recalled the incident. "A light blue bakkie came speeding up and hit two women before it swerved into him. It ran over him, reversed and then sped off," she said. The other two victims are reportedly in pain but suffered lesser injuries. Doubell remains in intensive care at St Anne’s Hospital with multiple injuries. “It’s heartbreaking to think that we were just at the doctors last week for a check-up after Johan’s knee replacement a year ago, now that same knee that was almost fully healed has been broken in 5 places. My fiancée also has broken ribs, a cracked skull, his cheek is broken and his lung collapsed,” said Kapp. On Tuesday Doubell was taken to theatre where he was fitted with a metal plate in his right leg and splint in the other. He had to undergo surgery to rectify his now fractured right optical bone. Doubell is seeing double, due to the displacement of his eye socket. “Due to Johan’s difficulty breathing he would have been unable to have undergone two major operations on one day. It would have been too risky to for him to be under anaesthetic for so long. We are hoping for the best and praying doctors will be able to save his right eye," said Kapp. Police spokesman,  Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed that charges of failing to stop and reckless and negligent driving were opened at Alexandra Road police station for investigation. " A 51-year-old man handed himself over to the police on 12 June 2018 and was released on warning. The docket has been sent to the senior public prosecutor for a decision," he said. To raise funds for Doubell's medical costs as well as his recovery, community organization, Porky’s People have created a campaign to raise R100 000 on donations based crowdfunding platform, BackaBuddy. Theresa Pienaar, Founder of Porky’s People, said: "We heard about the horrific incident that happened with Johan and wanted to do our best to ensure his speedy recovery. We hope the public will continue their support for a respected member of our community and contribute to his fund on BackaBuddy.” The campaign went live on June 12 and had by Friday morning raised R 8 336.99 with contributions from 17 donors. Donations can be made via: https://www.backabuddy.co.za/johan-doubell-medical-fund Daily News