Durban - Police maintained a strong presence in Amandawe near Scottburgh on the KZN south coast on Thursday after 25 people had to be taken into police custody on Wednesday when a march to the municipal offices turned violent. More than 1 000 people - some of them armed with guns and other weapons - blockaded roads, burnt tyres and dug up parts of the roads in a service delivery related protest in the Amagcino area. Police say they were forced to stop the march towards the Umdoni Mayor's office in Scottburgh when the protestors attacked officers with dangerous weapons. Police spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said: “A large group gathered singing and toyi-toying. Smaller pockets of people from KwaCele, Amahlongwa and neighbouring areas joined them, swelling the gathering to more than a thousand people. They were due to march from Amandawe to Scottburgh where they planned to hand over a memorandum to the Mayor of the Umdoni Municipality. Initially, there were no incidents of violence or stoning and there was a very strong police presence throughout the day in the area." But things took “a nasty turn”, Zwane added when protestors who joined the march pitched up armed with dangerous weapons. “Intelligence was received that some of the protestors were also armed with firearms. The convenor who made the formal application for the authority to march informed authorities that he was withdrawing as convenor as the protestors were conducting themselves contrary to their agreement to stage a peaceful march," he said. "When the protestors refused to disarm themselves and became violent, police responded and brought them under control. Police refused to allow them to proceed further towards Scottburgh. They were informed that as per their agreement, the authority to march was being revoked as they were burning tyres and carrying dangerous weapons and that the march was considered an illegal march from that point onwards,” said Zwane. The 25 were taken into police custody briefly and then released on warning. No charges have been filed. Daily News 