The Daily News asked about Facebook user “Nkuleko Mkhize” at the University of Johannesburg (UJ) and the Durban University of Technology (DUT) where he claimed to have studied aeronautical engineering. DUT’s media liaison, Nduduzo Ndlovu, said they did not have a student by that name on their records. Herman Esterhuizen, of UJ, said there were hundreds of students with this name and needed more information. The Daily News also tracked down a person named Nkululeko Mkhize, who had a similar profile picture to the Facebook account in question, but he denied being that person, saying he was a high school pupil who had not posted on social media for months. The post said Indian South Africans were not welcome in KwaZulu-Natal and “should be shot like 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj”, who was killed during a hijacking in Shallcross last Monday. The posts led to Visvin Reddy, an ANC activist, laying criminal charges against “Mkhize”. It also led to Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South Africa Hindu Maha Sabha, sending a formal complaint to the South African Human Rights Commission. Reddy said he was disappointed with the post. “This was even worse as it came at a time when the Chats­worth community was coming together as people and not along racial lines. Crime does not affect one race. It affects all races,” he said. Reasons There could be a number of reasons “Mkhize” had posted these comments, said Reddy. “One could be because that is how he really felt, or for political ends.” He said this was similar to an old apartheid tactic of stoking racial tensions between Africans and Indians. Trikamjee said: “My reaction was one of anger and ‘here we go again’”. He said he applied to Facebook to have the post removed and it was deleted. He believed the reason for the quick removal of the post was because other people had complained. Trikamjee expressed concern at the idea that this could have been a fake post by someone trying to start conflict. “The post came at a time when the Chatsworth community was emotional and still reeling from Sadia’s death,” he said. “I understand the anger of the Indian community in Chatsworth.” Trikamjee said he also understood why the community would feel that they were “under siege”, especially after Avoca resident Kelly Chetty’s death from another botched hijacking last Thursday. He said this was top of discussion at the Hindu Maha Sabha’s 106th anniversary held at the end of last month. Trikamjee pointed out that this was not only specific to the Indian community, but all South Africans who feel as if they are under siege from criminals. “It’s not only the hijackers who should be targeted, but the people who buy these cars from them. It is these people who create a market for hijacking.” SAPS Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of crimen injuria had been opened, but no arrests had been made. Investigations were ongoing. Daily News