This comes after reports that five people had died of rabies infections in the province this year. “If your dog, or any other pet, has been vaccinated annually and does come in contact with a rabid animal, the chances of developing the disease and becoming contagious are very small. So one cannot stress enough how essential it is to vaccinate annually,” said Ciacciariello. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), rabies is a vaccine-preventable disease, and vaccinating dogs is the most cost-effective strategy for preventing rabies in people. WHO said treating rabies exposure was expensive, and on average post-exposure prophylaxis could cost $40 (R538). Last week, social media was abuzz with the news of a white husky which was put down after it was suspected to have been infected. Questions were raised on whether tests could have been done on the dog first. “Unfortunately, the only way to confirm a rabies infection is by conducting a histological test on the brain,” said Ciacciariello. Online users were also concerned about people who had been in contact with the dog because they feared possible infections. “If a person thinks she or he has been in contact with an infected animal, they need to see a doctor immediately to start the preventive treatment. It is essential and this cannot be delayed,” said Ciacciariello. According to a statement by the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, if a person is bitten by a rabid animal the wound must be washed immediately with soap and running water, and then the victim must taken to a clinic immediately. “It is important to complete the treatment in order to prevent rabies. If one does not seek treatment and the person becomes infected with rabies, that person will die,” it said. According to WHO, initial symptoms of rabies includes a fever with pain and unusual or unexplained tingling, pricking or burning sensation at the wound site. As the virus spreads to the central nervous system, progressive and fatal inflammation of the brain and spinal cord develops, all of which can be prevented with proper treatment if response is immediate. According to WHO, infected dogs may show aggression and try to attack other animals, cars, fences and people. They may bark for no reason; seem as though they have a bone stuck in their throat, salivate and may show paralysis of the lower jaw. They eventually show signs of paralysis in the hind legs and then die. Daily News