At recent public meetings with residents, a proposal was discussed for a precinct within a radius of 1km around UKZN’s Howard College and 500m on either side of Varsity Drive on the Westville Campus. The student precinct project is the result of a combination of a shortage of on-campus student accommodation and the related snowballing business of illegal off-site digs (converted residential homes), many of which are not properly managed or secured. Acting head of communications at eThekwini Municipality Mandla Nsele said the project was being finalised by the land use management project office for student accommodation in the mentioned areas. He said they were “trying to contain student accommodation and decrease or reduce infiltration into the wider residential areas”. Manor Gardens resident Mark Stayt said there were about six student residences in his road already. One establishment was well managed with proper house rules, but the others were overcrowded and presented problems like loud music after hours, rubbish and broken bottles on the road, and students loitering. “I have no problem living next to students, but if they are going to be part of a neighbourhood they also need to be responsible residents. In my road, we’ve spoken with students and they seem to understand. I think the problem is not with the students themselves. There is no proper management at some digs,” said Stayt. Junus Horn, chairperson of Subsector 1B under the Mayville Community Police Forum, said an added concern was the safety of students who became easy targets for their valuables such as cellphones and laptops. “We’ve had cases of student digs that were robbed because they are soft targets and there is no proper access control.” Horn said many residents were also concerned about the effect of a student precinct on property values. “Some residents have lived in the area for more than 20years and have invested in their homes. If you have more digs opening next to you, there is concern that this will affect the values. We’re just trying to find an amicable solution. We’ve requested a full copy of the proposal so that we can analyse it properly and formally respond, or object if that is required,” said Horn. Sandile Zondi, central student representative council (SRC) president at UKZN, said they had been fielding complaints from students. “Often, there is no proper security in place. Another problem is that although students pay rental fees, some properties are not maintained. The SRC has tried to intervene in a few cases and met with landlords. We’ve actually identified a few buildings and have given owners until after the current holiday break to rectify the identified problems. Then we will reinspect,” said Zondi. Yesterday, Nsele said the municipality wanted to contain the spread of student accommodation into the wider residential areas, “which is currently happening”. “At present, the municipality does not have a policy to guide where this happens. The study, which is being conducted, prior to any finalisation of the project, will address this. The aim of the project is to put in place a planning and management tool that will direct student accommodation in and around the UKZN campus pro-actively,” he said. Nsele said while spatially locating the designated areas, the study would propose a set of principles. “These will be used by applicants to submit an operational/ management plan with their planning application which will assist going forward. The study will assist in reducing some of the challenges that residents are facing at the moment around the UKZN area with regards to student accommodation,” he said. Daily News