This comes as the KZN Health Department forked out R461 million in medical negligence claims for the 2017/18 financial year. The provincial department is saddled with R10 billion in contingent liabilities on medical negligence claims. The payment of medical claims have been on the increase over the years, from R20.6m paid out in 2012/13 which has since ballooned to R251m in 2016/17. KZN Treasury head Smiso Magagula said  he was hopeful the contingent liability could not be realised after they learnt from the Western Cape how to establish a medico-legal unit. “What happened after engaging our colleagues in the Western Cape to look how they manage medical claims in public facilities, we got now a unit whose job it is to isolate cases they think are frivolous and reduce the contingency,” Magagula said. “What we did not have as a province in the past is a unit whose focus was to manage this liability. Certainly, there will be those we will have to honour which will point to negligence,” he said. Magagula made the comment when he appeared before the finance committee of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) to make a presentation on the preliminary outcome of KwaZulu-Natal’s budget expenditure for March 2017/18. He said the recently established medico-legal unit consisted of medical and legal staff who dealt with active and future medical claims. “Their work includes updating various policies, giving feedback to management and staff on the outcomes of cases and recommending preventative measures, dealing with double-dipping and facilitating the implementation of the patient’s rights charter.” Magagula said the unit would also facilitate mediation to avoid lengthy litigation. “The mediation will be undertaken by trained mediators and will offer future medical treatment at state institution at no cost. “Each case will be reviewed to see whether it should be defended, whether liability should be conceded or whether to mediate the matter.” Emmanuel Pillay, of the National Treasury, said medical claims were not only a problem in KwaZulu-Natal. “There is a huge contingency when cases are brought forward. KwaZulu-Natal sits at around R10bn,” Pillay said. The report submitted to the NCOP showed that R265m was paid in medical claims by all nine provinces in 2012/13. This figure in all provinces is at R1.4bn now. Daily News