Vilane said this would be his 10th Comrades - he has finished eight races. He said the marathon was the last leg of three challenges he had set himself. The adventurer ran the Two Oceans Marathon in April, and then went on to climb Mount Everest. He returned to South Africa last week. “When I walked down Everest, I felt completely wasted,” he said. But for him, the Comrades was what he considered to be the biggest challenge of all. Vilane has completed the Seven Summits challenge. The challenge consists of climbing the highest mountains on all seven continents. But when it comes to the challenge of the Comrades, Vilane said he planned not to push himself too hard during the down run from Pieter­maritzburg to Durban. He said he would listen to his body. Commenting on the race he did not finish in 2016, he said he had ran more than 70km when his body could not take it any more and he decided to listen to it and stop. This was, however, not the last time he would run as he went on to complete another race. “I’ve always been a Comrades fan,” he said. He said he used to avidly watch the race on television and had favourite runners, including Bruce Fordyce. As much as he enjoyed the race, what sparked his interest to participate was seeing three-time winner Vladimir Kotov win the race when he was older than 40. Another aspect he was inspired by was the “Comrades spirit” among runners and supporters. Vilane said this was important to him because this was something he was not exposed to when mountain climbing, which is not a spectator sport. He said he would be also run for a good cause: to raise funds for the Sport for Social Change Network under the #ComradesForGirls initiative. For every kilometre he runs, he hopes people will donate money to help girls with their education. It was not only his cause he wanted to be supported. Vilane said he wanted people to support all runners who were running for charity this weekend and to come out in their numbers to cheer on participants. Daily News