“Unless there is urgent intervention in the (energy) sector, Eskom poses one of the biggest risks in South Africa," Maimane said. “Its financial management and ability to influence our economy, investor confidence and ability to create work means that Eskom is a crisis unfolding at this point,” Maimane told a press conference in Parliament. “We need profound state-owned enterprise reforms, but also city-led economic strategy because cities need to be at the forefront." He said 62% of residents would in the near future eventually end up in the cities, which should be at the forefront of the provision of energy. The leader of the official opposition also said they viewed Eskom, as a monopoly, as completely unsustainable. “It cannot hold us to ransom as it does now.” The DA is drafting legislation on the envisaged reforms for Eskom, which will be released in a month or two, to ensure there was a mix of energy sources in the country. This forms part of the DA’s plan to break what it deems as the monopoly of Eskom. The push by the DA comes against the backdrop of the wave of load shedding that hit the country in the wake of industrial action by workers who demanded a 15% increase while management refused to offer any increase. Maimane said it would be amiss to disassociate load shedding from the ANC’s management of the Eskom over a number of years. “I find it startling that an ANC leader himself would turn around and say the state of governance is near collapsed. It is clear acknowledgement of how the ANC failed in managing some of the SOEs but also managing government itself,” Maimane said in reference to President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa lamented the collapse of governance in state institutions at the weekend. Maimane said while they welcomed a new board and CEO at Eskom, reforms were needed. The first crucial reform was to curtail the number of middle managers, estimated to be more than 400. There should also be diversification of energy in South Africa as dependence on coal alone was unsustainable, both environmentally and economically. “It would be crucial to acknowledge the fact that where the DA has governed, many of these reforms we put in place already.” There were multiple projects undertaken in the City of Cape Town and Western Cape to ensure there was a mix of energy sources. “Let’s diversify the energy and put the economy at the forefront. We must find a way of splitting Eskom’s build and generation (of power supply),” Maimane said. Natasha Mazzone, DA spokesperson on public enterprises, said there should be city-led economic growth and development. “By 2020, 20% of the City of Cape Town's energy is to be from renewable sources,” Mazzone said. She said they wanted other DA-led cities to follow best practices that worked in Cape Town.