Durban - Eleven people alleged to be linked to a syndicate that scammed the South Africa Social Security Agency (Sassa) of R25 million have been arrested by police and were expected to appear in court on Thursday. Those arrested include Sassa officials, members of the public and a doctor. They were either arrested or handed themselves over to police since June 20 and police said they were closing in on a few more suspects. “We are confident that we will get them too,” Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, Hawks spokesman said. Mulaudzi, said the arrests were linked to an investigation into the murder of a Sassa official in Empangeni in 2008. “During that investigation which led to the successful arrest and conviction of six people for his murder, information pointed to a syndicate in operation. So we’ve been investigating this case for a while now. There are 15 suspects in total in our investigations. We have 11. There are only four left. They know who they are. They should just hand themselves over now,” he said. Mulaudzi said the syndicate operated from Empangeni and would fraudulently claim disability grants from Sassa, with the help of a local doctor. “They have been linked to R25 million worth of fraudulent claims. Among those arrested are Sassa staff, members of the public and a local doctor. Five were arrested on June 20, two more over the weekend and on Tuesday three suspects handed themselves over. They were brought in by their lawyers. They are facing charges of fraud, corruption and murder, as three of the suspects have also been connected to murder in 2008,” he said. In a statement MEC for Social Development in KZN, Weziwe Thusi welcomed the news of the breakthrough. She said Ngwelezane Service Office Manager, Thembinkosi Dlamini, was investigating allegations of fraud and corruption when gunmen stormed into his office and shot him dead in June 2008. “Six people were arrested and convicted at the time. The Hawks took interest in the case and conducted its own investigation, which led to the further arrests… “I wish to commend the Hawks for a job well done. They have indeed shown us that the arm of the law is very long. I think Mr Dlamini’s family will be satisfied that all those responsible for his death will finally pay for their crime,” Thusi said, adding that she hoped the crack-down will deter other corrupt officials. Daily News