One-hundred-and-twenty-five years later, as South Africa grapples with many social ills, including poverty and inequality, his granddaughter, Ela Gandhi, believes that the country can still learn from his teachings. South Africa and India prepare to mark the 125th anniversary of the eviction of Mahatma Gandhi at the Pietermaritzburg railway station with a series of events this week. “After the Pietermaritzburg incident, it took him ten years to think about how this idea could evolve, and that is how he changed his own way of life, his own way of thinking,” she said. “He decided to give up his wealth, he changed his lifestyle, from living in the city to go and establish and live in the Phoenix settlement. There, he embraced simplicity.” Ela Gandhi said that her grandfather opposed avarice and believed that equality was crucial for the greater good of a nation. “He opposed greed, and as we are talking about the issue of land, if land is available to each individual (then it is better). If you are a farmer, you may need more land, and in that instance, land doesn’t need to be equally distributed, but it has to be available to every individual. “That is how South Africa can benefit - by embracing a life of sharing among each other. Because there is enough for everyone; we just have a few who have way more, and some who have nothing.” Gandhi said the only way to make that happen was if people were prepared to share and give others a chance to also live a decent life. “We also see a lot of corruption because of greed. Gandhi’s teachings tell us to have enough to live a decent life, as there is enough for everyone. Such an unequal society is not ideal.” This week, the High Commission of India: South Africa, with the support of the Indian ministries of external affairs and culture, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations and the Pietermaritzburg Gandhi Memorial Committee, will be hosting a series of events - on Wednesday and Thursday - at Pietermaritzburg to commemorate the anniversary of the birth of Satyagraha. The External Affairs Minister of India, Sushma Swaraj, will be in the country for the commemoration. On Thursday, Swaraj will inaugurate a special two-sided bust of Mahatma Gandhi at the Pietermaritzburg Railway Station. Other events include the inauguration of a digital museum on Mahatma Gandhi; the release of commemorative stamps on Indian and ANC stalwarts Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya and OR Tambo and the release of Mahatma Gandhi commemorative coins. Swaraj will focus on the relevance of Gandhi and his message of peace and non-violence in today’s world. The Indian and South African dignitaries will also jointly release a coffee-table book on Mahatma Gandhi which encapsulates quotes by world leaders and eminent personalities on the relevance of Gandhi’s message of peace in the 21st century. An event highlight will include a re-enactment of the historic train journey undertaken by Gandhi 125 years ago on Thursday morning, with the support of a local cast of actors. The train will be draped in Khadi, especially imported from the Khadi and Village Industries Commission India, as a mark of respect to Mahatma Gandhi, who had in the early 20th century started a nationalist movement for homespun cotton cloth in reaction to foreign imposed fabric, sold at exorbitant rates. The two-day commemoration will include a youth summit on June 6, where 20 diaspora youth from Africa and 5 from India will be flown to Pietermaritzburg to speak on the relevance of Gandhi’s message of peace to today’s youth. The Gandhi-Mandela Youth Summit is expected to conclude with the adoption of a resolution. There will also be a mini-film festival on Gandhi in Pietermaritzburg on 6 and 7 June, featuring among others the Oscar-winning film Gandhi by Richard Attenborough, all screened free for the public. The commemoration will include an address by Swaraj at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall on the evening of June 6, corresponding to that of Mahatma Gandhi, who had addressed the venue over 100 years ago - in 1912. The Pietermaritzburg City Hall and station, and Gandhi statue at Church Street, will be lit up in national colours that day. Daily News