Durban - The Durban Anti-Cell Mast Alliance (DACMA) has lodged papers in the Durban High Court seeking a review of a 'secret deal' between MTN and the eThekwini Municipality that saw scores of cell masts mushroom across the city. The alliance is a lobby group created in 2017 to protest what they call the illegal roll-out of MTN cell masts across Durban. The alliance alleged the eThekwini Head of Disaster Management Vincent Ngubane absolved MTN from any regulatory processes when they put up their infrastructure across the city. In court papers, a group of applicants ask for an urgent High Court review of this ‘secret deal’ alleging that MTN and the eThekwini Municipality disregarded a slew of by-laws including disregarding town planning schemes, contravening national legislation, health and safety guidelines and the Civil Aviation Act and contravening Section 33 of the Constitution. “We have been forced to go to court because both MTN and eThekwini Municipality have consistently lied about this secret arrangement,” DACMA spokesperson Niki Moore said in a statement. “This infrastructure roll-out was completely unprocedural and secret, with the result that MTN put up cell masts, hundreds of them, next to creches, schools, old age homes, on people’s pavements, in play parks, right outside their homes – with absolutely no consultation, no site planning, no permissions, no scoping, no public process. Anyone who complained was threatened and intimidated.” “The research we have done has shown that this roll-out was completely unnecessary, as none of these masts increased cellular connectivity in areas where it was actually required. MTN has done the cellular telephone industry no favours: by proceeding illegally and unprocedurally, they have raised huge concerns about their industry in the minds of the public. Now people are really talking about cell masts, and the effects they are having on property prices, the environment, and people’s health.” She said that while DACMA was not against the need for reliable communication technologies, they believe there are better ways to go about it adding that at the moment, the impact of long-term high-frequency microwaves on humans and the environment is relatively unresearched – and the research that does exist is causing alarm amongst scientists. “It is nonsense that municipalities, who make money out of cell mast rental, can dismiss any community concerns about the unverified effects of cell masts from the people who are forced to live right next to them. We are hoping that this court case will make both municipalities and mobile telephone companies stop and think about their reckless actions.” Responding to questions from The Mercury earlier this year, the city acknowledged that there were some poles that were not compliant with the by-laws, but said there were "only" 40 of these, and that they were currently not operational. “While MTN may not have adhered to all the relevant land use management protocol in respect of the 40 new poles, steps are being taken to ensure compliance,” said city spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa. She said across the city there were currently 327 poles being used by various companies as cell masts, and all these had been approved by the city. The 327 poles, Mthethwa said, had been rolled out in preparation for the 2010 Soccer World Cup. “During the same time, MTN approached the city seeking permission to rent the city’s poles for their cell masts. All poles MTN is currently making use of have been approved by the city.” Asked if there was ever any special “infrastructure sharing” agreement between the city and MTN, Mthethwa said the city’s Disaster Management Unit had entered into an agreement with MTN and other network operators for the use of the city’s 327 CCTV camera poles as cell masts. MTN spokesperson Jacqui O’Sullivan, told The Mercury said the company was working closely with the municipality to ensure that a solution was reached on the matter. “MTN has been engaging with the relevant departments on this camera pole matter for a number of years, and specifically in recent months, in an attempt to secure clarity on a way forward. Last week, we received valuable feedback from the eThekwini Municipality, and we are currently engaging with the relevant officials to finalise the way forward. "We are confident this will be resolved within the coming months, as directed by municipal approval process timelines,” she said. The MTN roll-out in Durban has sparked concerns about the proliferation of cell masts across the country with organisations such as National Alliance Against Cell Masts forming in response to the masts. The aim of this group is to assist people to combat unwanted and unnecessary cell masts in South Africa, to pressure the South African government into revising microwave radiation limits from cell masts, and to lobby for communication technologies that are less potentially harmful. Daily News