DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal police have appealed to motorists to report incidents when they are attacked so that they can investigate them and bring the perpetrators to book. The appeal comes in the wake of a 36-year-old motorist being stabbed in the leg at the  R102/Palmview traffic lights on Tuesday night during a robbery. While the private security company, Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa) attended to the incident and assisted in getting the injured motorist to hospital, police said they had no record of the incident at either the Phoenix or Verulam police stations. "Nothing has been reported..." police said in response to a query by the Daily News. "We are appealing to the motorists to report such cases to the police for further investigation and our officers constantly patrol the area," the statement said. Prem Balram, a spokesperson for RUSA, said they were called to the intersection shortly after 7.30pm by several motorists who witnessed the robbery and stabbing in progress. "Upon arrival Reaction Officers found a male who suffered stab wounds to both his legs," said Balram.  "According to the victim, he was stationary at the traffic light on the northbound lane when he was approached by an unknown male who asked him for change. The driver informed him that he did not have any money on him and the suspect then walked a few meters away, returned then drew a knife and attempted to stab him through the open window. The driver further explained that he fell into the passenger seat and used his feet to push the suspect away. He was then stabbed repeatedly on his legs and exited the vehicle through the passenger door. The suspect then continued to chase and attack him in full view of other motorists. He was robbed of his vehicle keys and a Huawei P8 Lite Mobile phone," he said. Paramedics treated the man at the scene and transported him to a hospital in Phoenix. Balram said RUSA attended to several robberies and attacks on motorists in the vicinity of the traffic lights in recent weeks. "Drivers stopping at these traffic lights are warned to be on high alert," Balram said. Despite being asked, police did not say if other incidents had been reported at the intersection. Daily News