Durban - Unless you are helping the injured or maimed, get out of the way. That is the message from emergency services personnel who are increasingly finding it difficult to treat injured patients at an accident scene. Another problem paramedics are battling with are motorists driving in the emergency lane which slows them down getting to an accident scene. Robert McKenzie spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal Emergency Medical Service urged motorists and bystanders to obey the rules of the road and allow paramedics to do their job. "At an accident scene, if you are not assisting with injured people, just get out the way. We often see people blocking the way standing there with their phones out getting video footage. We urge people to just allow the paramedics to do their job," he said. Mckenzie said that while they appreciated assistance at times at accident scenes, he urged bystanders not to remove injured people from vehicles. "People that are in vehicles after an accident need to be moved out in a very certain way. We urge people not to move them unless the car is in fire or has fallen into a river," he said. He was echoed by paramedics from ER24 who are facing similar problems. According to ER24, recently medics responded to a scene where 15 people were injured following a four-vehicle collision in Alrode, South of Johannesburg. ER24 medic Justin van Wyngaard said that because of the magnitude of the collision people were curious to see what had happened. The crowd made it difficult for the medics to move through and access the patients who required urgent medical help. “It took about five minutes from where I parked the ambulance to get to where the other paramedics were and where they needed us. People didn’t want to move, and this takes precious time away from the patients who need our help immediately,” said van Wyngaard. Van Wyngaard added that they had the most trouble at big collision scenes" due to the volumes of people who were attracted to them. The crowding or reluctance to move doesn’t just affect the medics getting to the patients, but they now also have to concern themselves about the safety of the public around them. “If there are about 25 bystanders standing close to us, we now have to worry about our patient, about ourselves and everyone standing around us. The safety of members of the public also become a concern especially when it’s a road accident, and the lanes haven’t been closed off for traffic. That’s why it is best to move back and stand on the sidewalk or next to the road. Give us some space to carry out our work,” said van Wyngaard. As members of the public, the best thing is to always be aware of your surroundings. If medical services and the police have been notified and you hear the sirens or see them approach, move out of the way and give them space to park, work and walk freely. What to do at an accident scene:   DAILY NEWS