Durban - The Durban Sea cadets are battling to stay afloat financially and are training out of a dilapidated building in the Bluff. "We love our unit and the 3 volunteers of the unit work tirelessly and mostly from their own pockets, to make this unit a proud one and we would really appreciate any kind of assistance that can be offered," said Denise Gouws the officer in charge of Sea Cadets in Durban. The Sea Cadets South Africa has about 15 units across South Africa that specialize in training children between the ages of 12 and 17 in the ways of the Maritime Industry. The Durban Unit of the cadets, situated in Seafarer Road in the Durban Harbour, is also known as the TS Tiburon. Gouws said this is mostly to develop skills and knowledge to add value to their future, but also to make them employable in the Maritime Industry after school.  Some of the skills being given to the cadets include catering, first aid, water rescue, communications, navigation, sailing, piping, engineering, parade work and leadership. "The training is given by adult officers and volunteers, none of which are paid for their time. The unit went through a very low point during 2015 and threatened to close its doors just before it reached its 100th birthday," Gouws said. The buildings which the cadets occupy are rented from Transnet. Gouws said the buildings are very old, especially the roofing. "During the October 2017 storms, various boats were damaged, walls were knocked down, windows were broken, a portion of the roof were blown off and the rest of the roof badly damaged.  As the roof is in a bad condition and is made of asbestos, it is almost impossible to repair, as the brittleness causes the roof to keep on breaking," she explained. Gouws said they have been trying to carry on with training in the building as well as raising funds to repair as much as they can. "Repairs to the roof will cost far more than we will be able to raise. When it rains, it rains as hard inside the building as outside, making training very difficult and also damaging our antiques and the furniture. There is a big need for this kind of training, we want to continue with it as long as possible.  It is not feasible for us to look for other premises, as there is none available that can give us a big enough parade ground, buildings for classrooms, and water for the children to learn to sail and continue their sail training," she added. Gary Young, Real Estate Manager for Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA), at the Port of Durban said that TNPA the leases operate predominantly as “triple net” leases, where the tenant bears all responsibilities and costs for the occupation of a site, including rental, rates, water, electricity and maintenance. Tenants are also required to have their own insurance coverage in place. He said the tenant is welcome to approach TNPA as the landlord to discuss options for repairs and/or maintenance to their buildings. Anyone willing to assist can contact Denise Gouws on  060 680 3449 Daily News