Crawford College, participating in the competition for the first time, was excited to serve as the host. “We believe it is a lovely opportunity to have kids on our home turf be a part of the community by inviting them to see what our school looks like,” said Dominique Bartholomew-Buck, a Crawford College teacher. Some pupils were excited about the opportunity the competition afforded them. “We come from an underprivileged school. We came here to prove that with the right mindset you can do anything. Schools like ours are underestimated, and with competitions like this, we prove we are just as good or better,” said Unami Mjoli, 15, of Mountview Secondary School. Healthy competition was embraced but similar to Monday and Tuesday, the Daily News’s mission of launching the quiz to spark an interest in reading and news among pupils was emphasised. Digital “The Daily News is trying to entrench reading the newspaper among young people. It is harder and harder to get them to read newspapers as they are interested in digital and social media,” said Livingstone Pillay, the quiz master. Teachers said the competition was doing “just that”. “It is a great initiative to get our pupils to read,” said Meloshnee Pillay of Mountview Secondary School. “More such activities need to be organised,” added Nalini Pillay, teacher and coach from Tongaat Secondary School. Pupils revealed how preparing for the quiz had reshaped their media habits and perception of the news. “I never used to read the newspaper. After reading it, I realised that it actually has a lot of information and I was being ignorant not reading,” said Dayeshni Moodley of Stanger Manor Secondary School. “I discovered the news is interesting. I learned new things,” said Diya Punchee of Verulam Secondary School. “In my everyday life I consume more news. You need to know about what is going on around you,” added Sinenhlanhla Ngema of Verulam Secondary School. For pupils and coaches alike, the competition has blossomed to represent something bigger. The regional finals will take place on August 27 at Varsity College’s Durban North campus. Daily News