Two people were arrested when the SAPS Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigations (FCS), with Interpol, stormed the home on Tuesday morning. Gauteng police Captain Mavela Masondo said one of the men arrested was wanted in connection with a Krugersdorp case where he faced charges of possession, creation and manufacturing of child pornography. “There is a possibility that more charges will be added when the suspect appears in Krugersdorp Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. Police cannot divulge more information on this case due to its sensitive nature, and to protect the victims, who are minors,” Masondo said. Another man was charged with sexual assault in relation to two minors found in the home. It is alleged that they made more than R250000 from child porn. Durban police said there was no proof of there being a child pornography ring yet, but they were investigating allegations around it and whether the men were working alone. Operation Bobbi Bear is committed to helping sexually abused children. Branfield said the Child Pornography Act carried a minimum sentence of five years for the production of child porn, five years for dissemination and five years for being in possession of child porn. “Research shows that when a man is caught abusing a child he has already hurt about 30 children before that. It is the most disgusting crime that can ever happen to a child. It stays in a child’s mind - and on the internet - forever,” she said. Branfield said she was tired of hearing people say suspects were “just looking at dirty pictures” and not raping children. “What he was doing was looking at a child being abused. Viewing this material is how sexual abuse starts. People’s mindsets must change.” Branfield believed that paedophiles receiving counselling and therapy while awaiting trial was a waste of taxpayers’ money. Instead, she said, the money should be channelled towards helping the children who were harmed. The arrests follow the establishment of the KZN Serial and Digital Crimes Investigation Unit, a division of FCS, headed by Captain Kessie Gounder. The unit is tasked with investigating the dark world of paedophilia and child pornography, with the aim of better protecting children. Since its inception a year ago the unit has secured five convictions in court. Branfield praised Gounder and his team for their sterling work. Anyone who may have information on potential suspects should report them to Crime Stop at 10111. Daily News