Durban - The South African National Taxi Association has been roped in to help with Sassa payments. Sassa provisionally agreed to transport grant recipients to the nearest pay-points to receive their grants. The news was given by Social Development minister, Susan Shabangu in a report to the Constitutional Court this week. In the report, Shabangu said they had a meeting with Santaco and the taxi organisation had provisionally agreed to transport social grant recipients to the nearest pay points to ensure they got the money on time. The report forms part of monthly reports that the department has to make to the Constitutional Court after the department was ordered to give updates on how it was ensuring payments of social grants over a six month period. This is to be done as the department transitions away from Net1 subsidiary, Cash Paymaster Systems. The department came under immense scrutiny in recent months after it was embroiled in numerous scandals with CPS which resulted in the Constitutional Court ruling that the tender for social grants payment had been unlawful and it later gave Sassa six months to terminate its contract with CPS. In the fourth report by Shabangu, she said they had also been in talks with Santaco regarding marketing, advertising and promoting the transition of beneficiaries from Sassa/Grindrod cards to those of Sassa and the South African Post Office. Grindrod is subcontracted by CPS. Shabangu said this came as a result of advice from a panel of experts who told them to do targeted communication telling them about the migration. The communication will be through mobile advertising banners placed on taxis. “We anticipate that this advertising campaign will be implemented during August 2018,” she said. Shabangu has also said that Telkom was also busy upgrading the SAPO’s IT network. IOL has previously reported that about 700 000 people were not able to carry out transactions on their new Sassa cards last month. Kgomoco Diseko, Sassa spokesperson, in a statement, said the glitches were due to a system overload as Sapo could not handle the large volume of transactions it had to process. Daily News