Durban - Five years ago, Buyi Mdinsi looked at an informal settlement in Groutville in KwaDakuza and saw that many young children were not attending pre-school. She decided to do something about it and started the Khulakahle Preschool in Groutville in the heart of the informal settlement that catered to the needs of underprivileged children. This week, her hard work and dedication in providing for the needs of those children were rewarded when the Shoprite Group partnered with her in an childhood development (ECD) initiative that will see the school benefitting from a feeding scheme for the very first time.  “Shoprite installed a kitchen for us and is providing nutritious meals for our learners for a year through the Lunchbox Fund.. Before some of them had to bring their own lunch” Mdinsi said.  Not so long ago she considered closing the school because running it without support had just become so difficult. Now Mdinsi is in the process of applying to the Department of Social Development for a state subsidy for each of the 21 children in her care. Rukea Shaik, operations manager for the retailer's Centre for Early Childhood Development the group will continue to take hands with women, like Mdinsi, who head up ECD centres. “The training offered to the carers and the school principal forms the heart of what we do at these schools,” Shaik said.  “The teacher’s training is not only for Khulakahle facilitators - we also trained teachers from ten ECDs in the surrounding area.” The training offered to Buyi and her peers at neighbouring ECDs is crucial as governance structures, like a constitution, registration with SARS and a mission statement, are among the things that the Department of Social Development requires for the awarding of the subsidy. “Besides the training and the establishment of a feeding scheme, Shoprite refurbished the school building and playground and provided educational equipment for the learners. The end result is that the learners now have access to a safe, stimulating learning environment in which they are able to thrive,” explains Lunga Schoeman, Shoprite’s CSI spokesperson.  The state of Early Childhood Development in South Africa Almost 4 million children in South Africa do not have access to any form of Early Childhood Development 70% of early childhood development (ECD) centres in South Africa are not suited to provide the necessary services to young children Close to 3 million of these children do not receive their daily nutritional requirements 51.7% of children aged 0-4 years have no access to any form of ECD 13% of 5-year-olds have no access either The first 1 000 days of a child’s life has a significant impact on their development, well-being and earning potential.  