Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has vowed to clamp down on mugging and robberies at Burman Bush following an entry on a Wikipedia page that warns people of visiting the popular tourist spot. Mandla Nsele, the city's deputy head of communications said that the Burman Bush Nature Reserve Management regrets the incident of crime that has affected visitors to the sanctuary. "Crime remains a social issue that requires a multidisciplinary approach to solve it and it also requires a change in the mindset of people," Nsele said. Part of the plan is to have programmes around crime awareness, he said. "The reserve has also appointed permanently full-time field rangers that patrol the area seven days a week. They are also working closely with other law enforcement agencies in order to strengthen security. The Reserve Management calls upon all reverse visitor to be vigilant at all the time and report any suspicions to reserve management and the South African Police Service immediately so prompt action can be taken,” Nsele said. This after a Wikipedia entry on the nature reserve in Morningside warned in capital letters: “Do not go there. Robberies happen at gunpoint on the trails.”  According to Wikipedia, the 50-hectare Burman Bush is situated about 8km north of the CBD and comprises a small coastal forest which forms part of the Durban Municipal Open Space System. Several residents have reported being mugged sometimes. A Durban resident who spoke to the Daily News said he and his wife were robbed at gunpoint. Martin Meyer, eThekwini ward 27 councillor, said that the fence needed urgent attention and said that the four staff members at the reserve was not enough. Meyer said they was planning a community get-together in September in the park, which will also be used as a springboard to launch the Friends of Burman Bush and Conservancy to assist us with restoring the sanctuary. Burman Bush possibly holds the remains of the original Durban forest that covered the entire Berea dating back more than 200 years. According to Wikipedia, among the trees found in ­reserve are flat-crowns, forest fever-berry and red beech; the reserve has three walking trails, the Pithi (500m), Hadedah (1km) and Forest Olive (2km); and a viewing platform at the outer walk’s northern extremity allows sweeping views of the uMngeni River, from Connaught Bridge to the Blue Lagoon. Daily News