On their Facebook page, the Network confirmed that the hole in one of Warrior’s flippers was most likely a bullet hole inflicted by a fisherman over a “catch”. “There are two types of conflict interactions between seals and the fishing industry: competition for a common resource (being the fish) between two “predators”; and operational conflicts, which occur during fishing operations, where seals take fish directly from fishing nets, which would have otherwise been caught by the fishermen, or the seal disrupts operations and damages equipment,” the post said. Musa Mntambo, Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife spokesperson, said the issue of seals being shot by fishermen was a well documented occurrence in the human-wildlife conflict space. “Both dead and live seals with gunshot wounds have been recorded on the shore in Cape waters. 2018 was the first gunshot wound recorded in KZN, but the animal was most likely not shot in KZN,” he said. It was difficult to say whether the seal suffered a gunshot wound, but a hole in any animal’s appendage could be from a variety of sources. “Seals, referred to as Pinnipedia in the legislation, are all classified as protected species under the Marine Living Resources Act, and the Threatened or Protected Species (TOPs) Act. Effectively, no one may kill, catch, capture, collect or be in possession of any seal or part of a seal without a permit,” he said. While under the care of uShaka Sea World, Warrior underwent a clinical exam and full body radiographs. Caryl Knox, uShaka Sea World’s veterinarian, said it was not easy to tell what caused the hole in Warrior’s flipper, but he could have been injured by a mate or another animal. “Warrior was thin, dehydrated and elderly. He didn’t eat properly and was quite sick,” Knox said. Warrior had old food in his gut and his gut was in the process of dying. They tried to rehydrate him, but eventually the bacteria in his gut moved into his bloodstream and he died. “He didn’t die from the wound. The wound was old and there was already scarring around the hole, an injury he could have encountered years ago,” she said. Daily News