Durban - The community of Bulwer and Glenwood are up in arms over the repeated power outages in their neighbourhood which are costing business thousands and leaving families in the dark. And to make matter worse, they are having to endure the outages despite the eThekwini Municipality building a new electricity substation on the corner of Clark and Cleaver Road - which according to ward councillor, Mmabatho Tembe is awaiting parts before it can go live. Tembe told the Berea Mail that she was aware of at least 13 outages since June and had since asked the eThekwini Electricity Department to investigate the matter. Outages have been reported in areas along Bulwer Road, ZK Matthews Road, Alan Paton Road, Umbilo Road and Helen Joseph Road and surrounding areas. “These are only cases where reference numbers were given. There could be more which weren’t recorded or reported,” Tembe said. “They occur as often as once a week for around two hours at a time. This was not load shedding. The Electricity Department has agreed to do a comprehensive study on underlying causes of the faults. It is a concern as businesses are affected and caused damage to household appliances, not to mention the inconvenience,” she said. Tembe said in July last year a project had been undertaken to lay new electrical cables in the area but there are still issues. She said the Bulwer substation, built to bring relief and to curb outages in the area was complete.  Heather Rorick, chairperson of the  Bulwer Safety Urban and Regeneration Forum said the city needed to move fast to get the new substation online. "The municipality completed the substation a long time ago. We have no idea why they have not switched it on," she said. "The power outages is of a big concern to us. We sometimes two in a week. Businesses are most concerned about it because they lose money when there are outages," Rorick said. The eThekwini Municipality did not respond to questions from the Daily News at the time of publishing. Daily News    