A report tabled at the city’s Executive Committee (Exco) meeting on Tuesday seeking approval to support the maidens was approved. Even though opposition parties supported the event, they appealed for the inclusion of councillors to work closely with officials to prevent a repetition of last year’s event. “What happened last time tarnished the city’s image. Small municipalities did very well in supporting their maidens, despite their small budgets. “I suggest that we have a team of councillors working with officials to avoid what happened last year,” the IFP’s Mdu Nkosi said. The DA concurred. In 2017, the city’s R500000 reed dance carpet became a hotly-debated topic, with opposition parties calling for an investigation into the procurement of the carpet, which was reportedly delivered late and did not provide maidens with comfort. The amount of R500 000 was also questioned. The Mercury, Daily News’ sister paper, reported that the price for the carpet included installation, but it was dropped off after 2 am and security guards had laid it down. It was reported that foam mattresses would have been cheaper and more comfortable. A maiden had referred to the carpet as that used for doormats or for the inside of cars, while some had refused to make way for the carpet to be laid. Mayor Zandile Gumede assured councillors that last year’s embarrassment would not be repeated. “Officials tend to work alone and when negative things happen it’s only then that those (matters) are brought to the attention of the politicians. We will work closer with them this year,” Gumede said. According to a report tabled at Exco, 20 female councillors from the community services committee would accompany the maidens to the event, with the cost incurred by the office of the speaker. The maidens would be granted R1.3 million to attend the event at Enyokeni Palace on September 7-9. “Supply chain management policies are to be complied with in the procurement of the logistics required for the event,” read the report Daily News