The Daily News has learnt that the state mortuary in Pietermaritzburg has 97 bodies while the Phoenix, Pinetown and Gale Street mortuaries have 55, 20 and 52 bodies awaiting burial respectively. It was not clear how long these bodies had been in the mortuaries, but they were awaiting completion of processes and burial. A parliamentary response to questions by the DA to the Department of Health revealed the challenges which led to the delay in the processing of the bodies included fingerprint processing, the crisis in obtaining burial space and some municipalities refusing to assist with paupers’ burials. Other challenges, according to the response, were the signing off of DNA requisition forms by doctors, who had either left the country or had since died, outstanding statements from the investigating officers giving permission to bury the deceased and the shortage of DNA kits. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson on health, said during his oversight visit to five mortuaries over the past few months, the response to this issue from all doctors and mortuary managers was uniform. “The blame was placed at the door of the SAPS and municipalities. Municipalities are solely responsible for the burials and often do not properly budget for this, leaving the dead frozen for prolonged periods of time. This is nothing short of merciless leadership at municipal level that is even ready to molest the dignity of the dead because of poor budgeting priorities and malfeasance,” Keeka said. “They should do everything possible to co-operate with the forensic services to ensure that all procedures are completed and that the burials take place. “While the SAPS is a national competence and the province plays an oversight role over the police, both Transport and Community Safety MEC Kaunda and Police Minister (Bheki) Cele should tell us why this is happening,” he said. The Health Department said the number of outstanding paupers’ burials fluctuated. Ncumisa Mafunda, a department spokesperson, said the delays in processing the burials arose because of the fact that some bodies had to await the completion of police investigations while others had to wait for the results of DNA tests, which required time. Daily News