Zuzifa told Independent Media that his MP father, who is turning 90 on Monday, was also a loving father who laughed but also liked to make others laugh. “My father would say that whatever we have achieved up to now he believes that it was because he was a strict disciplinarian. “It helped to fortify us and make us almost as resilient as him. He shouted at us to keep us on to the right path he did a lot of that,” said Zuzifa. He said his father and his mother, Irene Audrey Thandekile, who celebrated 66 years of marriage this year, deserve to spend quality time with their family. Buthelezi had eight children, but only three are still alive, and has 12 grandchildren. Zuzifa is head of the organising committee for his father’s three celebration events to mark the milestone birthday. The first took place at the Durban Exhibition Centre on Sunday, with various religious groups, including members of the Anglican Church led by Archbishop Thabo Makgoba, taking part. King Goodwill Zwelithini was also present to wish Buthelezi well. On Monday, members of the public have been invited to Ulundi Stadium for another birthday event. On August 31, Buthelezi will celebrate with local and international dignitaries at a gala dinner at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre in Durban. Zuzifa told guests on Sunday that the family regarded his father as one of the world’s greatest statesmen and politicians. But while others only saw the serious side of Buthelezi, he said, they were in a privileged position as they could see him in a relaxed environment. “His grandchildren would say ‘he is actually very chilled’ and he can be very cool. “He loves his music, and is just a normal person.” Zuzifa said his father never attempted to persuade his children to follow in his political footsteps. “We are just happy that the (political) bug has eaten our older sister Phumzile.” She is an IFP MP. Zuzifa said the family had always competed with the members of the public for his father’s attention. “We did not understand, but when we grew up we started to understand the bigger role that he was playing, and we had to embrace that.” He said that even though his father was always away from home, Buthelezi tried to balance being a public figure with a father and husband”. “Under the circumstances, he did an excellent job.” Daily News