DURBAN - Distruction Boyz member Goldmax has taken to Instagram to clarify that the gqom duo do not have dancers and are not associated with the dancer who faces rape charges in court. A 31-year-old Afrotainment dancer is facing rape charges at the Durban Magistrate Court. The dancer, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the 13-year-old victim, was granted R5000 bail at the court on Friday. He allegedly raped the young girl on Sunday. Isolezwe reported this week that the child had been allegedly raped at her home by the dancer. A news report which claimed the dancer was a Distruction Boyz dancer angered Zipho “Goldmax” Mthembu, one half of the gqom duo. He took to Instagram on Friday to clarify that they were DJs and had no dancers signed under them. “It's sad when our names are being used in things that are not related to us. We are DJs, we do not have dancers signed under us. Why is Distruction Boyz name being used as a heading? Does the person whom the article is about not have a name? Why is our name used then and not theirs?” he wrote. Mthembu said they were “highly disappointed” by the ordeal, while TshisaLive amended the headline to “Afrotainment dancer”. “Please think about how many people are being affected each time you write false news or try to use someone's name to draw attention. We are highly disappointed by this,” said Mthembu.      It's sad when our names are being used in things that are not related to us. WE ARE DJs, WE DO NOT HAVE DANCERS SIGNED UNDER US. Why is DISTRUCTION BOYZ name being used as a heading? Does the person whom the article is about not have a name? Why is our name used then & not theirs? Anything to sell papers ne?! Just remember we have parents, neighbors, we come from a community where people look up to us & many of them don't even read the articles they just read the HEADING & Absorb the information. Please think about how many people are being affected each time you write false news or try to use someone's name to draw attention. We are highly disappointed by this. If you wish to write about us (coz we know it's hard to keep the hottest group out of the news) here's something to write about; 1) We lead nominations at this year's #DSTMVCA with 3 nominations 2) We are nominated in America at this year's Afrimma awards 3) We have a sizzling hot EP coming out soon. We shall await your next article about Distruction Boyzzzz. Peace & Love A post shared by  Goldmax (@officialgoldmax_dboyz) on Aug 17, 2018 at 5:22am PDT  DAILY NEWS