Adrian Richards, 36, recently discharged from a hospital, said he was lucky to be alive. The May 26 incident has outraged the Facebook community on the Wentworth (South Africa) represent! page, which mentioned other victims. Catherine Richards, Adrian’s mother, has since obtained nearly 500 signatures on a petition which she handed to police. It called for the dogs’ removal. Adrian had been walking along Eavesham Avenue with a friend when he was mauled by three pit bulls. “We saw the dogs fighting on the side of the road and when we passed them they ran towards me from behind. One grabbed my leg and I fell to the ground. The others joined in and kept biting me. When one of them locked on to my neck, I saw a light and passed out,” he said. Initially admitted to King Edward VIII Hospital, Richards was then transferred to Clairwood and Wentworth hospitals in two months. “I was sedated. I am only realising the extent of my injuries now. It was a near-death experience. God saved me,” said the father of two. Catherine showed the Daily News pictures she had taken of her son’s wounds. Large chunks of flesh and muscle could be seen bitten off on Richards’s left hand, left leg, neck and buttocks. He said he was in excruciating pain. Catherine also kept Richards’s ripped clothing. “When I arrived at the scene, I watched with so much pain and grief at what the dogs had done to my child. We shouted for the owners to come out, but they ignored us. The police and ambulance did a good job. I applaud them. Without their help and that of residents, Adrian would have died,” Catherine said. “These dogs need to be put down. How can we have such vicious dogs in a residential area? The schoolchildren walk past daily. A teacher was also mauled by these dogs. Must someone die before any action is taken?” she asked. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, SAPS spokesperson, said a case of keeping a dangerous dog was opened at Wentworth Police Station. Mbele said the docket was taken to court for the prosecutor to make a decision. The owner of the dogs was not available for comment when the Daily News visited the house. The family said the matter was under police investigation and there was no proof their dogs were responsible. The house is in close proximity to the Assegai Primary School. Nicole “Nici” Linden, an expert on pit bull behaviour, said the owner should be charged. “If he cannot train his dogs or contain them in his yard, then he should not be allowed to have dogs. He is irresponsible. He should pay the medical bills for everyone that his dogs attacked,” Linden said. She said owners should ensure their dogs were confined in their yards. “Pit bulls require training, a secure property, socialisation, daily exercise and stimulation so they do not become destructive. If a person cannot provide this, they should not even consider the breed.” In another incident in the area, the boyfriend of resident Kayla Cassie van Wyk was attacked by three pit bulls in Reiger Road on Saturday. The victim’s name is not known. Although this was a few streets away from the initial incident, Van Wyk said it could be the same dogs. “One bit him on his leg. Thank God he was able to get away, but he was very shaken. The dogs then ran up Lubbe Road and literally tore apart another dog,” Van Wyk said. Daily News