Durban -Ocean activists could not have been happier when the shark nets were lifted along the KwaZulu-Natal coastline in July.It followed strike action by workers at the KZN Sharks Board, which is responsible for the maintenance of the nets. The striking workers said the beaches would remain closed until their demands for a 13% wage increase and R1000 danger allowance were met. For the activists who aim to get the nets permanently removed, it was an opportunity to create awareness about their BanShark Nets campaign and the word spread about a peaceful swim at the unnetted uMhlanga Rocks main beach on Saturday. The activists, led by Cera-Jane Catton, said the nets did not protect the public. They were scattered along the shore, so sharks could pass underneath, between and across them. While shark numbers had been reduced as a result of being caught in the nets, “today, the nets merely pose greater risk to harmless creatures and 80% of what is caught in the nets is on its way out, having already passed the bathers”, said Catton. About 100 swimmers said they would support tomorrow’s campaign. Then came word that the strike was off and the shark safety gear was being re-installed and swimming opened at a host of beaches. However, Catton said the campaign would continue and some activists would still swim. “We are back to square one and fighting to get the nets taken out,” she said. She stressed that they had nothing against the Sharks Board. “We want them to use their resources to enrich the environment,” she said. Swimmer Sarah Ferguson, who raises awareness about ocean conservation, said yesterday she would be joining the protest at the beach tomorrow. “Sadly, the nets do cause a lot of deaths,” she said. Ferguson recently completed a 100km swim from Mozambique to Sodwana - there are no nets. “Sharks are not out to get you. Yes, they are inquisitive and will investigate, but if you have an understanding and respect for the ocean, you know how to behave around them,” she said. Mike Anderson-Reade, the head of operations at the Sharks Board, confirmed that the shark nets had been re-installed on the North Coast (Richards Bay - Alkantstrand, Zinkwazi, Blythedale, Salt Rock, Willards Beach, Westbrook and uMhlanga Rocks), Durban (uShaka to Suncoast Beach inclusive) and the South Coast (eManzimtoti, Umzumbe, Southport, St Michaels, Margate, Ramsgate, San Lameer, Glenmore and Port Edward). Daily News