They are demanding full-flush toilets, claiming it is inhumane to use portable units. When the Daily News visited the area at least 10 toilets were lying on their sides at the roadside with residents threatening to burn the rest if they were not removed. “Think about it; the stink in this area is going to get worse because these toilets are not secured inside people’s yards,” said resident Mbali Dube. “They are literally on the roadside. When the city fails to empty them, what is going to happen? “Some people sell food in their tuck shops and with these toilets all over the place, it is just going to be a health hazard. “Build us houses and full-flush toilets,” he said. Homes in the informal part of the area have pit toilets but these, too, need chemicals to neutralise human waste. However, some people believe that having the pit and portable toilets would help reduce the risk of pit toilets overflowing. Rajen Chetty, a CPF member, and Shoodamoney Padayachee, residents in Nagina Phase 2, said the portable toilets would make life “easy” for the residents of the corrugated iron settlement. Nagina Phase 2 is a settlement north of Phase 2. “We don’t always have money for the chemicals used for these pit toilets, so we need the relief of the portable ones. People on the other side may not be happy about them, but we accept them,” they said.  Fifty portable toilets were sent to the area about three days ago, according to area councillor Reginald Cloete. He said he made the request for the toilets for the Phase 2 residents, and since there were a number of toilets over - and considering that the extension area had none - he decided to send them to the area. “It was out of goodwill that I took the toilets to the area. They were not happy with them so a truck will be in the area to fetch them. If they decide to reject our help, then this help will be given to those who want it,” Cloete said. It was not immediately clear how much it cost the city to procure the toilets, which company was contracted or whether the procurement underwent the proper tender processes. The city did not reply to an email with questions seeking information about the issue. The Daily News reported in March that two city officials were suspended this year after being implicated in a urine-diverting dry toilet (UD) scandal. It was reported then that R36.1 million was prepaid to four companies that had failed to supply the UDs to impoverished communities. According to the report by the city’s Integrity and Investigative Unit (CIIU), 2 200 UD toilets were to be supplied to communities and schools in 31 rural and semi-urban municipal wards, including KwaXimba, Cato Ridge and KwaNyuswa. But this never happened. Urine-diverting dry toilets are used to provide sanitation in a variety of contexts worldwide. Daily News