Durban - South Africa’s land should be distributed to people who can use it to generate food production and boost the economy instead of doing it in favour of a certain racial group, said Prof. Judith Brown Emeritus Professor of Commonwealth History at the University of Oxford. Brown, together with Prof. Kalpana Hiralal professor of history in the School of Social Sciences at Howard College, UKZN, and Dr Ela Gandhi addressed the Mahatma Gandhi memorial lecture at the university in Durban on Wednesday. Brown said even Gandhi found it difficult to deal with the issue of land redistribution in India “because it is such a complex matter”. “There is no easy way of saying this land belongs to these people. There has to be negotiation about who needs land for farming in such a way that it produces food and revenue for everybody. “Everyone has to look at the good of the country and ask who are likely to be good farmers and produce food for everybody,” said Brown. Brown warned that South Africans might find themself in a Zimbabwe situation where “farming collapsed and the whole country suffered”. Brown said Gandhi was hostile to state power, “and he believed that significant social political social transformation had to happen from the roots upwards”. Bases on her knowledge of Indian history and politics, she said the issue of land expropriation without compensation came up in India during Gandhi’s time and it proved to be difficult to deal with although it had been endorsed by that country’s constitution. “Gandhi was assassinated before he was able to deal with it. “I think he would have been more open to tactical persuasion rather than force because he would have thought that force and violence would have broken peace. “It is an extraordinary difficult problem, and whatever happens you have to make sure that people who gain access to the land know how to use it properly, know how to farm for the whole nation,” said Brown. Gandhi’s granddaughter Dr Ela Gandhi said racial divisions in South Africa can only be bridged if all races have equal access to the economy. She said the roots of racial division in the country was as a result of the imbalance in economic distribution. “Whether we look at xenophobia or racism, at the bottom of it is the economic and class issues. “We have political liberation, but we have not tackled the issue of gender and class, which are very important issues that we need to tackle to be able to live a good life in South Africa,” she said. Gandhi said she sees South Africa moving backwards in terms of addressing racial differences. “As long as inequality increases, how are we going to meet? To a large extent inequality has made African people very poor,” she said. She said although there are a number of Indians and whites who have joined the poor class under the democratic system there were many African people who had become poorer because their aspirations have not been met. “The poor of all races are saying the new government has not brought us liberation, and has not changed our lives for the better. “(MK) Gandhi said the world has enough for everyone’s needs, but not for everyone’s greed,” said Gandhi. Daily News 