DURBAN - THREE men who were involved in a high speed car chase with private security guards from Durban North to Morningside are expected to appear at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. The extraordinary car chase was captured on dashcam by a Marshall Security vehicle who chased the alleged criminals from Durban North, all the way to Musgrave Road in Morningside, where they were eventually arrested. In the video, the accused are seen driving a white VW Polo at high speed as they slice through traffic in an attempt to evade the armed security officers. At some stage, the vehicle the accused were travelling in is seen crashing into other vehicles as they continue to try to evade arrest. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police said the three accused, who are aged 26, 32 and 35, had broken into a car im Durban North. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the incident took place last Tuesday. “The complainant alleged that yesterday he parked his vehicle in the parking and everything was locked and the windows closed. A security guard informed him that unknown people broke into the vehicle and were chased by the security guards,” said Gwala. Police opened a case of theft out of motor vehicle and confirmed the men were arrested at Musgrave Road. They are set to make their second appearence at the Verulam Magistrates Court after appearing last Friday. Kyle van Reenen, a spokesperson for Marshall Security said the accused had collided with motorists during the high speed chase. “Three male suspects were arrested on scene and remanded into the custody of the South African Police Services for further investigation and processing. Property confirmed to have been stolen in a theft out of motor vehicle in the Umhlanga Rocks area earlier in the day, was recovered in the boot of the vehicle. The suspects are also wanted in connection with an attempted theft of motor vehicle case in the Umhlanga Village area,” said van Reenen. DAILY NEWS