The KZN United Nurses’ Forum was launched in Umbilo where hundreds of nurses vowed to fight in one voice for their rights. Bhekithemba Gumbi, a Public Servants’ Association member and an organiser of the launch, said the group had observed that unions did not speak in one voice which delayed finding solutions to challenges. “Appalling working conditions, staff shortages and salary disparities are some of the problems we have had for a long time,” Gumbi said. He said the suffering of their members, where some found themselves driving ambulances and cleaning hospitals, had made them understand the need for the forum. “Service providers are not contracted and therefore if a ward becomes a mess, nurses have to clean. Who then does the nursing work when nurses become cleaners? We want leadership that will understand that unhappy employees do not perform at their level best, but our members try hard despite the challenges,” Gumbi said. He raised a concern about community members insulting or assaulting nurses when they felt neglected in public health-care facilities. “Nurses are not the problem here, the system is. We will be sending out petitions to the government and the department seeking solutions. “If we were to go to all the hospitals in KZN and call for a protest, then the government would see another Life Esidimeni tragedy, and we don’t want that,” Gumbi said. The National Union of Public Service and Allied Workers said it was possible that its members could be part of the forum. Abednigo Nkosi, union provincial secretary, said the issues were worrying. “We have had no engagements with the organisers as leadership, but if their focus is to push for solutions to the problems, it’s possible our members decided to be part of the forum,” Nkosi said. The forum will play the role of a pressure group as it would not have the grounds to negotiate at the bargaining level. Mandla Shabangu, provincial secretary of the Democratic Nursing Organisation of SA, said it was not invited to the launch, although it was aware of the forum’s activities. “Yes, the MEC (Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo) might be part of the problem, but unions and forums do not have the power to remove him. “His removal can only happen through engagements with the ANC,” Shabangu said. “We encourage the use of formal structures to engage the government on issues touching employee grievances, just as we have been doing all along. “The forum has a right to launch, but as far as I know five unions are the formal structures to represent the workers.” The Health and Other Services Personnel Trade Union of South Africa also said it was possible that its members had joined the forum. Health Department spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda welcomed the formation of the forum. Daily News