This comes after lectures were suspended at the Westville campus for at least two weeks. A 19-year-old student from Mount Frere studying BCom Accounting said the protests had negatively affected him. “Most of us are at risk, in terms of academic record, and if that happens again this semester, exclusion takes place. “We can’t even study because we have no study rooms at my residence. Due to the strike, no lectures have been taking place and tests are not rescheduled. “This week is full of tests and I really don’t know what’s going to happen because I’m far behind and it’s weeks now without attending,” he said. He said he could be excluded because the university uses a system which only allows them to be at risk twice - the third time results in expulsion. “As a first-year student that means if I’m at risk again this semester, I won’t finish my second year,” he said. He said before the protests, assignments had already been given out. Online tests were still being written but other tests were supposed to begin today. The student lives at Pioneer Arcade (Palace) residence in Berea Road and they have listed 19 issues, ranging from showers not having shower curtains to not having a study room. A 23-year-old, fourth- year student from Richards Bay, studying BCom Finance and Economics, said everyone was falling behind. He said being affected academically was linked to the issues at the residences, which he felt the university had ignored. “We do not have a study hall,” he said. “We cannot study. There are times when other students are playing music in their rooms while I’m studying. That environment is not conducive. You might have an assessment the next day but there’s no electricity the day before... there’s no water, so I can’t be productive in those conditions. It’s the little issues that end up becoming the bigger problems.” Normah Zondo, acting Executive Director: Corporate Relations Division at UKZN, said university management had suspended the academic programme at the Westville campus on Friday after a group of students barricaded roads, damaged property and disrupted lectures. “Students are encouraged to continue with their academic obligations at home. Every effort will be made to recover the academic year,” Zondo said. SAPS Captain Nqobile Gwala said a group of 400 students had gathered at the Westville campus. She said they damaged university furniture, doors and also set alight two guard houses. “Police had to use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the unruly students. No injuries were reported. “A total of 12 students were arrested for public violence. They will appear in the Pinetown Magistrate’s court,” said Gwala. Daily News