Durban- Two South Africans are literally suiting up to climb up Fish River Canyon in Namibia. Cobus Steenkamp and Eunice van Schalkwyk will be aiming to raise funds and awareness for non-profit organisation, Project Dignity this women’s month. Project Dignity is an extension of Subz Padz which was founded by Hillcrest resident Sue Barnes in 2010. Subz Padz are washable pads panties that can be reused. The panties are made from 100 percent cotton and the pads are made from hydrophilic and hydrophobic fabrics. The two will have their equipment stored in business suitcases as they make the 90 Kilometre hike in five days in an effort to raise R230 000 which would equal to about 1000 packs for girls that can last up to five years. “The mere statistics of girls missing school, preventing them from reaching their full potential should be enough incentive to do something. Both of us feel strongly that education is the key to a better future, not just for the individual, but for our country as a whole. We specifically wanted to do something that will help girls as, most often, it’s them making the most sacrifices. This is why we decided to do our hike during August, Women's Month, particularly over Women’s Day on 9 August.” Van Schalkwyk said. She added that they wanted to make the private sector and government aware of challenges faced by young women. An environmental scientist by profession, van Schalkwyk said she and Steenkamp had taken a number of initiatives individually but the Fish Canyon expedition would be the first one they would be doing together. Barnes thanked the two for their planned endeavour. “To hike the Fish River Canyon in full corporate gear, with nothing but two briefcases of supplies, takes determination and strength of character. For Cobus and Eunice to be doing this on behalf of Project Dignity, knowing the difference it will make in so many young lives, is truly worth celebrating,” Barnes said. She said the venture by the two would give many girls their dignity back. Daily News