Durban - Motorists travelling on the N3 this long weekend have been warned to monitor their fuel gauges and re-fuel before it becomes low as three fuel stations - two in KwaZulu-Natal and one in the Free State - have been closed for renovations. The renovation to the fuel stations has meant that there are no fuel stops are available along the N3 Toll Route between Van Reenen’s Pass and Estcourt. Both direct access facilities near Tugela Plaza and Estcourt are closed for renovations and only expected to re-open later this year; and in the Free State, the fuel stop near Balmoral (before Harrismith when travelling south) is also closed for renovation. Motorists will have to go off the Route for fuel along this section, The N3 Toll Concession (N3TC) the company that manages the N3 toll route said in a statement. “To avoid the risks and discomfort of being stranded along a busy national road, it is essential that travellers plan alternative fuel stops in advance,” N3TC  transport engineer, Miles le Roux said. The N3 Toll Concession said that since the closure of the three fuel stations their Route Patrol teams who assist with emergencies and breakdowns along the N3 had seen a spike in the number of vehicles running out fuel. During April this year, 17 vehicles ran out of fuel, and a further 13 vehicles in May; but since June (and the closure of the fuel stations) these figures have more than doubled. A total of 46 vehicles ran dry in June and required assistance, and in July another 51 vehicles – the highest number ever – ran out of fuel on the N3 Toll Route. Fuel stops currently operational along the N3 Toll Route (south- and northbound) are located near:   "Rehabilitation and construction work on the N3 Toll Route between Nottingham Road and Howick will cease for the duration of the long weekend to allow for unrestricted traffic flow. Only essential maintenance work will be undertaken if required," the company said. The N3C said that peak traffic conditions are expected from Wednesday, August 8 between 2pm and 8pm in a southbound direction, and also on Thursday morning between 6am and 12pm. High traffic volumes are also expected on Sunday, August 12 from midday to 8pm with the majority of vehicles travelling northbound towards Gauteng. "This time of year, parts of the N3 Toll Route are prone to experiencing adverse weather conditions which may include freezing temperatures, thick mist, wet weather and high winds. As it is currently the dry winter season, the areas adjacent to the N3 Toll Route are prone to veld fires which can spread rapidly. Every precaution should be taken when driving in dangerous conditions. Switch headlights on, reduce speed, increase following distance and remain fully alert at all times. If at all possible, avoid travelling at night," the company said. Daily News  