Durban - Armed robbers fired several shots as they fled the scene of a home invasion North of Durban in Avoca on Wednesday. Blue Security community and media liaison officer Andreas Mathios said a gang of six armed robbers arrived at the property in a gold Mercedes Benz at around 5.45am. “The gang forced open a pedestrian gate and then proceeded to force open the front security gate and door. The suspects held up the family at gunpoint and demanded cash and jewellery,” Mathios said. “The suspects grabbed cellphones, a tablet and an undisclosed sum of cash. But as they were about to flee the scene they were disturbed by a neighbour who heard noises on the property and came to the front of the premises to investigate,” Mathios said. “One of the suspects who was waiting in the getaway vehicle spotted the neighbour. He alerted a second suspect who was standing guard at the door who then fired several shots at the neighbour. He missed and hit a vehicle that was parked inside a nearby property a few doors away. No injuries were reported,” Mathios said. Greenwood Park SAPS attended the scene of the crime. In a separate incident in Durban North, on Tuesday, an elderly woman was assaulted when an intruder entered her garden cottage on a property in Cadogan Place. The incident occurred at around 1.35pm. “The resident had left her cottage door unlocked while she watched television in her bedroom. The suspected entered the cottage and walked into her bedroom where he grabbed her walking stick and started hitting her on the head. She fought back but the suspect managed to empty her bedside drawer and grab her cellphone before running away. The victim sustained a cut to her finger. Paramedics treated her at the scene of the crime, ” Mathios said. Mathios advised residents to always keep security gates locked when at home during the day to prevent opportunistic criminals from gaining easy entry into the property. “Unfortunately, apart from organised criminal gangs there are also opportunistic criminals in the suburbs who will jump at the chance to gain easy access into a home if they notice a gate or door, or even a window has been left open. Make sure that your external beams are also switched on for an early warning system while you are at home,” Mathios said. Daily News