Durban- A gang of men who drive around in a Hyundai H1 kombi and steal goods from the back of trucks have struck again in Pinetown on Monday. Despite the arrest of three men, on Friday, in connection with a spate of theft from trucks in Durban the gang has apparently regrouped said a police source.  On Monday, they targetted a truck parked in Westmead. A source said the gang arrived in a Hyundai H1 and forced open the back tarpaulin sails. They loaded up stock in the van and drove off.  They managed to take stock from two pallets that contained cans of Strongbow apple ciders. On Friday, police impounded a Hyundai H100 which the gang had used. They had hired the vehicle and removed the number plates and interior seats. Police believe that the person they had hired the vehicles from had three Hyundai H1 kombi's. On Thursday, the gang were caught on CCTV brazenly stealing goods off a truck parked near a warehouse in Umgeni Road.  They are expected to appear in court on Monday. The incident which was captured by CCTV cameras showed a Hyundai H1 kombi stop alongside the truck which was parked outside the entrance to the warehouse of Arrow Cash and Carry in May Street. The truck had brought goods on pallets to deliver to the store which had not yet opened. The video captures how the men ripped open the side canvas of the truck and began offloading the goods into the kombi without fear. At least three men can be seen in the video. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  A source said the men offloaded approximately three pallets, of boxes, containing body lotion. The driver who was in the cab at the time attempted to drive off but the men had sabotaged the truck so it could not move. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, a KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said the driver alleged he was outside a supermarket to deliver goods when he noticed Hyundai H1 and Toyota bakkie with a group of men outside. "One man was in possession of a firearm. The complainant decided to lock himself inside the truck and the armed suspect attempted to open a passenger door but failed. The suspects loaded the goods into their vehicle and drove away. A case of robbery was opened at Durban Central and three suspects aged 37 and 58  were later arrested," Zwane said. Daily News