AbM’s spokesperson Thapelo Mohapi said Sbu Zikode had gone into hiding after getting wind of a State Security Agency (SSA) “hit list” with his name on it. He said Zikode had been in hiding for about three weeks. If the SSA wanted to approach them, then the movement’s lawyers should be present. Mohapi said: “We decided that he must go underground until the situation improves.” Mohapi said the decision was also influenced by the deaths of some AbH members. He said over a period of five months last year, seven members had died violently. Mohapi said Zikode recently told him that he was in good health, but was fearful for his life. “In the eight years I have been in leadership, I have never seen him like this,” he said. Brian Dube, a spokesperson for the SSA, said they would not confirm or deny if Zikode had been approached. Because of the deaths and constant harassment, Mohapi said they were not able to go about their daily lives in the usual manner and had become wary of everything they did, such as when answering cellphone calls and vetting those with whom they socialised. They had sent a letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa in June, asking for his assistance in investigating the violence against them. KZN Violence Monitor Mary de Haas said this was not the first time Zikode had gone into hiding. She said about nine years ago, Zikode received wind of an impending attack on AbM and went underground. She said the organisation had felt aggrieved that they were not being taken seriously by the municipality, even though they were well-established in informal settlements. “They have a history of taking up issues and being persecuted for it They have a real grievance,” De Haas said. With elections around the corner, an increase in violence was a possibility, with AbM becoming more militant, she said. De Haas also said AbM had not made things any better for themselves when they told their members in 2014 to vote for the DA, which they now saw as a political error, especially when some members leaned more towards supporting the EFF. “Why isn’t the municipality sitting down with Abahlali and discussing issues?” she asked. Mthunzi Gumede, eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said they had numerous platforms where they could engage AbM. Gumede expressed shock that Zikode had gone into hiding and encouraged Abahlali to report all matters to the police. “For a long time we’ve been trying to engage with Abahlali to find the best way forward.” For this to happen, he said, they had to ensure there were proper rules of engagement. He said they wanted to have more dialogue with AbM as they were tired of the public spats they had in the media. “It is not good for us and not good for them,” Gumede said. Daily News