Durban- Police are hunting down the remainder of a gang of thieves who are preying on goods trucks in Durban. Three members of the gang had made their first appearance in the Durban Magistrates Court on Monday. Simphiwe Motaung, 37, Sipho Jila, 37 and the man owning the Hyundai H1 kombi's  Patrick Mkhize, 58 were remanded into police custody for further investigation. They are expected to make a formal bail application on September 3. Despite the arrests, the remainder of the gang is still at large and allegedly stole from a stationary truck in Pinetown on Monday morning.  Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the truck driver was delivering alcoholic beverages to a business in Westmead at about 05:45. " He was following another truck when suddenly he felt that his truck couldn’t move. When he got out to inspect , he saw three men looting his truck. He confronted them. The men ran away. The men came back and started throwing stones at him. A white van with an unknown registration stopped next to him and the driver threatened to shoot him if he did anything. All four men offloaded beer from the truck into the van and drove off," Mbele said. A case of robbery was opened at Pinetown SAPS for investigation. Mbele said the trucks are parked near warehouse receiving depots waiting for the stores to open to deliver goods. The truck drivers are in the cab of the truck while the theft occurs. The gang were caught on CCTV footage removing the tarpaulin sales off the side of the truck in Umgeni Road on Thursday. They then grabbed boxes stacked on a pallet inside and loaded them into the kombi. "One man was in possession of a firearm. The suspects loaded the goods into their vehicle and drove away. A case of robbery was opened at Durban Central," Mbele said. On Friday, arrested the three and police impounded a Hyundai H1 which the gang had used. The gang had hired the vehicle and removed the number plates and interior seats. Police believe that the person they had hired the vehicles from had three Hyundai H1 kombi. Daily News