Durban - The National Ports Authority, Transnet, Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), the Department of Human Settlements and the Ingonyama Trust the eThekwini Municipality an eye-watering R231.3 million. Of this amount, R216.6 million is in arrears and 14.6 million is current debt, a report tabled at the city's executive committee meeting revealed. The tabled report sought to update the committee about debt recovery from parastatals and government departments as requested by the Municipal Public Accounts Committee at a meeting on 27 July. According to the report, the amounts outstanding have not been recovered due to various factors mainly due to objections from the parties involved. The report states that government departments and parastatals own a number of properties within the municipality and in a number of instances these departments and parastatals raise objections against the value of these properties and if they are unhappy with the outcome they raise appeals. And in most cases they do not pay for rates until the appeal process is finalised. The report concludes that the outstanding amount will be recovered from the parastatals once the valuation issues are resolved while the amounts owed by the Department of Human Settlements will be reversed once the executive committee and council approves the report. The amount by the Ingonyama Trust is always included in the provision for bad debts. Deputy City Manager of Finance Krish Kumar said progress has been made regarding the recovery of debt. He said debt owed by schools and the Department of Public Works, which is not included in the report, has also made good progress. He said the tabled report, was not required to come to the Executive Committee, but it did to ensure transparency in the City. “Our Section 71 report is unlike other cities and the detail we have included in the report has been commended. We brought the report to the Executive Committee to ensure they can play their oversight role efficiently,” he said. Addressing concerns that the city was lenient towards government departments and parastatals but not residents who were in arrears, Kumar said the City always acted fairly. “We only disconnect when there is a breakdown in the relationship. We have issued disconnection notices to parastatals. We follow due processes regarding disconnection and endeavour to treat all customers fairly whether it is residents or a parastatal.” Daily News 