Constable Mbiko Buthelezi, 36, was fatally shot and his partner, whom police have not named, was wounded when officers from the eThekwini inner north cluster were conducting operations at KwaMashu Hostel and they heard gunshots coming from an informal settlement within the hostel on Friday afternoon. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker said police responded to the scene and saw two men with firearms. The men fled along the railway lines and fired shots at the officers. Buthelezi was fatally wounded and the second officer was shot in his leg. Police are still searching for the suspects. Buthelezi had served the SAPS for six years. He lived in Clermont and was the family’s breadwinner, supporting three siblings and three children. Nano Buthelezi, his sister, said she did not know how the family would cope. “We are at a loss. We don’t know what we will put together because he was the breadwinner,” she said. She said she did not know why her brother had wanted to be a man of the law because he was a very quiet person. “He didn’t speak much. He was a good person. He had a good heart, was supportive and a problem solver,” she said. Vowed Buthelezi was the eldest of his siblings and took care of them when their parents died. He will be buried on Saturday. KwaZulu-Natal acting provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi vowed to track down the killers. “We will not rest until they are found and we will leave no stone unturned. We are also appealing to the community to come forward and expose these thugs. “Our heartfelt condolences go to the family of the late police officer and we wish our colleague in hospital a speedy recovery,” Mkhwanazi said. Another police officer was killed in Gauteng when he came across a robbery-in-progress while patrolling. The officer chased the suspect on foot and was shot. The acting national police commissioner, Lieutenant-General Lebeoana Jacob Tsumane, condemned the killings. “We have been doing well in combating the scourge of serious crimes around the country, but at the expense of several of our members,” said Tsumane. “The time is now for our communities to rally behind the police to put an end to these continuous attacks on the authority of the state.” Blessed Gwala, the IFP’s provincial spokesperson on Community Safety and Liaison, has called for intense penalties for those attacking the police. “At a time when law enforcement officers increasingly come under attack simply because of the job they do, South Africa must send a resolute message that the government will stand by the men and women who serve and protect our communities. “Criminals who kill officers must be punished and not granted parole,” Gwala said. Daily News