In a statement, Gumede said she had met her lawyers. Gumede acknowledged that the media played a critical role as a source of information, education and entertainment, but decried that “in our days” it was used as a propaganda tool to fight political battles. “Every Sunday there is an article accusing us of being corrupt or failing. The reason for the continued attack is based on propaganda philosophy which is about repeating lies until people believe them as truth. “The truth remains, I’m not corrupt and nobody is investigating me. I have written to my lawyers and asked them to give advice on what action must I take against these reports. If left unchallenged people will believe that I’m a corrupt woman, yet I’m not,” Gumede said. She called on women in the newsrooms to refuse to be part of the “agenda” that journalists only write about scandals involving women celebrities and women leaders. The Sunday Tribune, the Daily News’s sister paper, reported this week that Gumede was a wheeler-dealer in a multimillion-rand tender scandal. It is alleged she demanded kick-backs from a group of contractors that shared work on a R650million construction project. This was for the building of ablution facilities at schools and informal settlements in greater Durban in 2015. According to the Sunday Tribune, eight companies were each to be given a share of the contract, but four more companies were given a stake even though they had not bid. One of the companies, Calvin and Family, apparently fell out of favour with Gumede after the owner, Calvin Mathibeli, refused to donate R150000 towards the Zandile Gumede Foundation marquee at the Durban July horse race. Following the Sunday Tribune’s article, Zwakele Mncwango, the DA leader in KZN, issued a statement saying he had written to the ANC chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, asking the ANC to come clean about the allegations. “Gumede can seek legal advice, it’s her right, but I doubt she’ll do that because it will be an embarrassment for her. There’s proof that she had called a contractor to her Sunningdale home, and solicited a donation for the ANC,” Mncwango said. Attempts to get comment from Mathibeli were unsuccessful. A woman who identified herself as Londiwe Linda requested emailed questions, but she had not responded by the time of publication. Nomagugu Simelane-Zuma, ANC provincial spokesperson, said they had gone through the records of the party donors and there was no donor called Calvin and Family. ANC eThekwini regional secretary Bheki Ntuli could not be reached for comment. Daily News