Lauren Pretorius, the chief executive of Campaign for Cancer, said maximum access to health care for cancer patients would be achieved through the training of primary workers such as nurses, to be able to detect early signs of the disease and refer victims to proper treatment facilities. She said KwaZulu-Natal was one of the provinces in crisis regarding cancer treatment access after the exodus of oncologists from the public health service because of a of infrastructure. Pretorius said early detection was the answer. She said more and more cancer patients died because it was usually too late by the time they reached a tertiary treatment facility. David Mkefa, a cancer survivor of Johannesburg, shared his story. Mkefa, who has been living with cancer for more than 10years, said if it was not for a magazine article he read while being treated for what nurses at a clinic diagnosed as bronchitis, he would have learnt too late that he had cancer of the throat. “I had gone to the clinic more than three times, complaining of the same thing, but got the same response every time that I had bronchitis. “My friends at the local tavern I frequented, suggested that I should boil some gin, ginger ale and painkillers and take it, but it would not go away. Instead, I got drunk from the gin,” he recalled. He said it was only three months later that he came across a 6-year-old magazine article on cancer symptoms. “I got shivers down my spine when I realised that I had all the symptoms of cancer. I returned to the clinic and told the nurse about what I read, and that I thought I had cancer. “It was not too late when the hospital I was referred to confirmed my worst nightmare. I had stage 2 cancer of the throat,” Mkefa said. Pretorius said people from rural villages did not have easy access to health care. She said Campaign for Cancer had already trained about 600 health-care practitioners. “The procedure of referrals from the primary to the district, the regional and then to tertiary health-care facility contributed to delays. “They need to be trained on the correct referral pathway for cancer patients, which should be according to treatment needed, not by buildings. This way we can save a lot of money on treatment.” Pretorius said they were considering training traditional healers on cancer symptoms, so they could advise their patients to get professional help on time. Daily News