Durban - Teacher union, Sadtu is calling for the closure of a school in Kwamakhutha on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast, where two pupils were stabbed to death on Monday until security is beefed up. Sihle Mngadi,20, grade 11, and Mangaliso Mbatha, 18, grade 10, both pupils at Masakhaneni High School in KwaMakhutha died at a local clinic. It is alleged that a group of boys, some who were allegedly not pupils at the school, had a fight with other pupils on school premises over a cellphone.  It is alleged that the two deceased were stabbed when they tried to separate the fight. Sadtu deputy secretary, Bheki Shandu, speaking at the home of one of the victims said they will push for the department to ensure that the safety of pupils are ensured. Shandu said what the department should understand was that issues of safety were urgent issues that needed urgent interventions before lives are lost.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "There is something very wrong about safety at the school for outside parties to be able to gain access to the school and they are armed," he said. Residents and officials from both the department of education and Sadtu visited the boys' home to offer their condolences. The pupils were sent home early as officials were in meetings in an attempt to resolve issues at the school. Some parents who spoke to Daily News near the school said they were not going to continue sending their children until their safety was ensured. A police van was parked outside the school gate. Community leaders gathered to hold discussions. Another parent said the violence at the school had gone on for too long and was being ignored. "We have no choice but to send our children to this school although we could see that it's not a good school because there is no better school nearby," she said. Daily News