Calvin Kelly Pillay and his wife, Ashona, were leaving for work at 6am. Ashona had their 3-year-old daughter in the back seat of her car. Family spokesperson Nishern Govender said as they were preparing to reverse out of their yard, a white Polo stopped and blocked them off. “Four men carrying rifles and handguns jumped out and forced Calvin and Ashona out of their cars. Ashona struggled with one of the hijackers as she tried to get her daughter out. She was punched on the nose,” said Govender. A neighbour tried to intervene but the hijackers waved a gun told him to mind his own business. The hijackers pushed Ashona aside and bundled Calvin into his Golf and drove off at high speed. Govender said two hijackers got into each of the cars. “Fortunately for Calvin there was a collision near Mobeni Heights and traffic was at a standstill,” said Govender. Thinking it was a roadblock set up to catch them, the hijackers jumped out of both cars and ran away. Ashona, who managed to get their child out of the car before it was taken away by the hijackers, told the Daily News she was still in shock after the ordeal. SAPS Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said Pillay refused to lay charges. “A case of hijacking was not registered. We advised the victim to lay charges so that the matter could be investigated,” Zwane said. It is believed Pillay would not open a charge because it would lead to his vehicle being deregistered and having to register it again. The Police Trio Crime Task team in the south Durban area handles hijacking investigations for seven police stations - Chatsworth; Wentworth; Brighton Beach; Malvern; Montclair, Bellair and Bayview. Metro police Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said they would investigate whether the car belonged to the municipality or if the number plates had been cloned. Jakes Singh, Chatsworth CPF chairperson, said Pillay was hijacked when police were changing shifts. “Without proper statistics it would be difficult to ascertain whether hijackings have increased. The CPF has noted that the hijackers have changed their target area. We would have to plan to provide additional police vehicles in this sector to combat hijackings,” Singh said. In May, Police Minister Bheki Cele met the parents of hijacking victim Sadia Sukhraj, 9, who died in the incident, and said he would provide additional resources to the Chatsworth police station. Singh said the station would be receiving 11 vehicles and additional officers this month. “We have additional metro police vehicles assisting in crime prevention. CCTV cameras will hopefully be installed this month.” Daily News