Charles Hugo Primary School in Sydenham has a problem experienced by many schools where parents cannot afford to pay the school fees and owe thousands. For Charles Hugo Primary, some of this debt is six years old. A majority of parents, whose children are now in Grade 7, have not paid fees since their children were in Grade R. To recover the debt, as part of the school management’s initiative which began this year, parents do gardening, clean toilets and perform other cleaning duties for R100 a day, which went towards their child’s school fees debt. An elderly couple, who had accumulated a substantial debt, were among the grandparents who worked at the school recently to pay back the money. They both had to work a total of 10 days to repay what they owed in school fees over the years. Parents told the Daily News this week that they were impressed by the elderly couple and other parents’ commitment to their children’s education. A parent, who did not want to be named, said the proposal was not received well at first, but it was good to see more parents taking advantage of the offer. “Instead of sitting at home and blaming unemployment, parents are actually doing something to account for school fees,” she said. Kwazi Mthethwa, the provincial Department of Education spokesperson, applauded Charles Hugo Primary, saying the initiative was a “good arrangement” to address the school’s financial problems. “It promotes the parents’ involvement in education and brings communities closer to the school,” said Mthethwa. Although the initiative was received as the best solution, a parent had written to the Daily News BackChat saying it was degrading parents and questioned if this was done in other schools. “My son attends a primary school in Waterfall Road, Sydenham and recently those parents and old grandparents who can’t afford school fees work at the school. “They do gardening, cleaning the toilets. This is not only degrading for the parent or grandparents but what about the child? Do other schools do this as well,” she asked. Matakanye Matakanya, the National Association of School Governing Bodies general secretary, said schools could at their own discretion decide how parents paid off their debt. “The school can at its own discretion allow the parents to work at the school to cover the rest of the school fees,” he said. When the Daily News visited the school yesterday, there were no parents working there at the time, but principal Allan Harms confirmed there were parents who worked at the school this week. The school was spotless with green lawns and flower beds. Harms explained that parents were not forced to offer their services, but it was offered to those who could not afford to pay school fees, to help towards settling the debt. The spotless toilets were the pride of the school, he said. “Cleanliness is next to godliness. We would not have such a beautiful and clean school if it was not for such initiatives supported by parents. “We have parents on duty to monitor the toilets, doing minor cleaning through the day and monitoring the children while visiting the toilet,” said Harms. He said the elderly couple were allocated easy duties such as the dusting of books on the library shelves. “We expect them to be back next week because they have a huge debt and they volunteered to work more hours to cover the whole debt,” said Harms. Nonkululeko Mbatha, a mother of two pupils at the school, is also helping to clean it. She said she benefited from the initiative, without which she would not afford school fees for her children. “I do not see why parents should feel degraded by working towards the education of their children,” she said. Abigail Crawford, the chairperson of the Charles Hugo School Governing Body, said they found that pupils were excited when they saw their parents working at the school. “We see this as showing accountability on the part of the parents,” said Crawford. Daily News