Durban - It has been a week of turmoil for passengers travelling to Pinetown in buses and minibus taxis that are not part of an association. Colonel Thembeka Mbele, a KwaZulu Natal police spokesperson, said Police will continue to monitor the situation to prevent any criminal activities. This comes after reports from Chatsworth residents that cars, buses and mini-bus taxi's were being stopped on Hans Dettman highway to check if lift clubs are operating and if the minibus and bus have the right to transport passengers to Pinetown. Mbele said that on Monday two taxi associations blocked off the Higginson Highway off ramp as well the Hans Dettman Highway. "The protest was peaceful. No arrest or damages reported,"she said. Durban Metro police spokesperson Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said they were also monitoring the conflict between the Chatsworth and St Wendolins Santi taxi owners association. It is alleged that the SANTI and Klaarwater taxi association are causing disruptions on the roads in Chatsworth and Pinetown.  It is alleged that there is a minibus taxi route dispute between the Chatsworth taxi association and St Wendoli`'s SANTI association. Mini-bus and private owned buses travelling from Phoenix, Reservoir Hills and Chatsworth who have permits have been prevented from entering Pinetown with passengers. There are also claims that the dispute has become a racial dispute and racial tensions between Indian and African taxi/bus owners. Devan Naicker a community activist in Chatsworth said with all efforts of social cohesion which is preached by most, the government, is allowing lawless behaviour and racism openly. "The taxi issue is getting out of hand. It will end up with uncontrollable violence," Naicker said. The provincial taxi violence unit was also at the scene the entire week. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Mandla Nsele said the matter was reported to the eThekwini Transport Authority (ETA) and the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport (KZNDoT) at the beginning of this week. "Both the KZNDoT, the ETA and taxi leadership are busy trying to facilitate a process to engage all parties involved with the objective to resolve this matter.  It is unclear at this stage as to what the grievances are but the issue of routes seems to be the main contention," he said. Nsele said the matter has been reported to all relevant law enforcement agencies so that they can ensure that the law is upheld. He said operators who have legal operating licences should not be illegally prevented from operating the routes that they have been granted operating licences to operate by the KZNDoT. " The ETA also appeals to all operators to operate in line with their operating licences and for all operators to work in harmony with each other," Nsele said. Daily News