According to the report, the South African labour market was more favourable to men and men were more likely to be in paid employment than women, regardless of race. It goes on to reveal that the labour market position of women has not changed much over the past decade, and has deteriorated in some respects. It says the informal sector, which accounts for 17.4% of total employment, plays an important role in providing employment to those who cannot find work. “There are more women than men employed in the informal sector trade (47.6% of women compared with 30.6% of men). Just under a third of women were employed in the informal sector community, social and personal services in the second quarter of 2018, compared with 9.6% of men during this period. Men were more likely to work in the informal sector construction and transport industries than women,” says the report. “In the second quarter of 2018, about 55.2% of those involved in non-market activities were women. This proportion decreased by 7.5 percentage points from 62.7% in the first quarter of 2008 on account of an increase in the number of men involved in non-market activities in the second quarter of 2018,” it states. Fighting Verushka Memdutt, provincial secretary of the SA Informal Traders Association, said men within their sector tend to be favoured more when it came to controlling aspects of it. For example, she said in Durban the wholesale fresh produce sector was controlled by men with most salespeople being men. “We have been fighting for the past five years asking the eThekwini Municipality to assist. “Within the Durban National Fresh Produce Market, there are five agents and out of the five only one is a woman.” She said in the past three months, the association has had complaints from many women about male managers who were apparently victimising the women for speaking up about irregularities. Memdutt, who began as a street trader 20 years ago, explained that when she was out on the streets for a year, she took her children with her. She said there was still a long way to go in addressing issues facing women informal traders. “If anything, we should be treated as business people as well as human beings trying to feed our families. For many women informal traders this is all that they have to live off,” she said. Memdutt said they met with the mayor and the office of the MEC for Economic Development and Tourism to highlight some of these challenges on Monday. Daily News