Durban - The University of Zululand is now formally accredited to produce chartered accountants, the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants announced. It becomes the second university in the province to offer CA(SA) qualifications, after the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Saica, UniZulu and the Banking Sector Education and Training Authority (Bankseta) said the BCom Accounting Science degree for undergraduates had also been given accreditation. This means UniZulu BCom Accounting Science students can study for their post-graduate without having to do a bridging course. Chantyl Mulder, Saica executive director, said the accreditation of the two universities meant students in the province no longer had to leave the province to pursue their dreams. “Through this capacity-building project, not only are the young people in the province being provided with quality education and the chance to become a CA(SA), but we are contributing towards the NDP’s transformation initiatives by increasing the number of black CAs(SA) in South Africa,” said Mulder. Mulder said teamwork and collaboration with the University of Cape Town provided capacity-building support and development to UniZulu’s academic staff. “Staff from both universities must be congratulated on this achievement, as it is a direct result of their willingness to collaborate and learn from one another that accreditation has been achieved,” said Mulder. Bankseta committed to investing R95m towards the project for the next 7 years, Mulder added. UniZulu Vice-Chancellor Professor Xoliswa Mtose said with support systems in place: “the quality of education at the previously disadvantaged universities can be as good as in any other institution”. Bankseta chairperson Mia Nosipho Makhanya said they were proud to develop the skills of young people. “To the youth, we look to you to create active solutions to shape the future of South Africa to ensure that there is growth and economic inclusion for all,” she said. With UniZulu receiving their accreditation, they became the fifth of six historically disadvantage institutions to achieve accreditation for their undergraduate BCom CA-stream degree, while three of the five institutions also received accreditation for the postgraduate programme. Daily News