Rabies is transmitted by the bite of an infected animal, with virus- laden saliva entering the wound and attaching itself to nerve cells. According to the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, if the wound is immediately washed with soap and placed under running water for five to 10 minutes, disinfectant is applied and treatment is sought immediately, rabies is 100% preventable. Dr Jacqueline Weyer, a medical scientist with the National Institute for Communicable Diseases said 11 human rabies cases had been confirmed by laboratory testing. “This is six cases from KZN and five cases from the Eastern Cape. In addition, we report two probable cases, which means that these cases were clinically compatible with rabies and there was a history of exposure to a potentially rabid animal before falling ill,” Weyer said. However, she said it was not possible to confirm these cases by laboratory testing. She also said more than double the number of cases occurred in the first half of this year compared with the whole of 2017. She said from January 1 to December 31, 2017, five cases were laboratory confirmed: KZN (1), Eastern Cape (2), Mpumalanga (1) and Free State (1), and one probable case in the Free State. She said there had been an increase in the number of human rabies cases from KZN and the Eastern Cape, which correlates with the outbreak of rabies in domestic dogs in these provinces. “Most human cases of rabies are related to domestic dog (and cat) exposures. When these animals are not vaccinated against rabies, there is the risk of them contracting the disease and consequently the risk of them passing it on to others, including humans. Humans can be protected against rabies virus infection if a possible exposure occurred through rabies vaccination and immunoglobulin therapy.” Weyer also said rabies was uniformly fatal, which means an increase in cases also means an increase in deaths. Each of the cases reported above resulted in death. Department of Agriculture and Rural Development spokesperson Phathisa Mfuyo confirmed the six cases of human rabies in KZN. “All the victims that have died in KZN did not seek medical attention, despite it being free at health facilities, hence we are calling on all communities to seek immediate medical advice if bitten by animals, especially dogs,” Mfuyo said. She said dogs were the main source of the disease and were required to be vaccinated by law. “A dog bite in KZN is seen as an emergency and an ambulance can be called if transport is a problem,” she said. At the end of last year, the department intensified its campaign against the spike of rabies, after reports of rabies were registered in the province. The province embarked on a massive drive to eliminate rabies completely to prevent more human deaths. This included free rabies vaccinations and creating awareness of the spread of rabies. She said current campaigns had already started in the Ilembe, Ugu, eThekwini and King Cetshwayo districts. Daily News