Siyabonga Gabela, 36, was part of the crew on board the KZN Sharks Board boat that capsized earlier this month in Richards Bay while they were inspecting and changing shark nets. His colleagues, Richard Gumede and Mandlakayise Gumede died in the ordeal, while Siqiniseko Ngobese and Eric Buthelezi survived. The Sharks Board confirmed that the body spotted floating near the pier on Alkantstrand Beach by local fishermen was Gabela’s. His family were reluctant to speak to the Daily News yesterday because they were upset the media had not contacted them at the time of the incident. However, the Sharks Board had at that time declined to provide the family’s contact details and had asked media houses to respect their privacy When this was explained to the family, Shadrack Gabela, Siyabonga Gabela’s father, said it was a very emotional time for them. He was speaking to the Daily News after seeing Siyabonga’s body. “We are hurting right now, a lot. First, he couldn’t be found and now his body is so badly decomposed. It’s a very hurtful time for us, I just saw his body and because of the condition it is in, I didn’t let his mother see him,” he said. Last week, a memorial service was held at the eThekwini Community Church for Richard Gumede and Mandlakayise Gumede. Sharks Board employees, who are still on strike because of work conditions and salaries, sat at the back of the church. A memorial service for Gabela is planned for tomorrow at the KZN Sharks Board Bay Station in Richards Bay. Buthelezi said he was at his home in eShowe because of the strike, and had no money to travel to Richards Bay for the memorial service. “The memorial service last week was in Durban, so it was easier for workers to get there. I’m not sure how many workers will be there on Thursday as we are all at home and Richards Bay is a distance away,” he said.  Buthelezi was thankful that the Gabela family would finally get some closure and lay his body to rest. “It was very painful to have a memorial service for just my two brothers knowing that Siyabonga’s body was still out there. Yes, there’s still some amount of pain because Siyabonga is no longer with us. “This must be a difficult time for his family especially because they were planning a joyous event for December,” said Buthelezi. Gabela had planned to marry the mother of his child at the end of the year. Daily News