The 25-year-old graduated from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in April with a degree in housing and town planning. As a fitness trainer she has more than 800000 followers on Instagram. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the driver of a vehicle was injured after the car she was travelling in “crashed and burst into flames” on Margaret Mncadi Avenue, opposite the Wilson’s Wharf. “The driver was injured and taken to hospital. The cause of the accident is unknown. We are investigating.” Crisis Medical paramedics were on the scene and spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said the driver sustained critical injuries. He said paramedics arrived to find the driver trapped in the wreckage and while they gave her medical attention to stabilise her, the Durban Fire Department used the Jaws of Life to free her. “The patient was placed on a manual ventilator before being carefully extricated from the wreckage. She was then rushed to a nearby hospital for the urgent care that she required,” he said. Yesterday, DRUM magazine reported that an emotional Sbu Mpisane said: “It’s really bad. I don’t know where she was coming from. But she is in ICU fighting for her life at St Augustine’s Hospital in Durban.” Soon after news of the crash broke, Twitter users expressed their shock and sadness at the horrific accident, with many saying they would keep the family in their prayers. Sbahle’s former boyfriend, Kaizer Chiefs goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune, also took to Twitter, posting her picture and wishing her a happy Women’s Day and a speedy recovery. Efforts to reach the Mpisane family were unsuccessful yesterday. In Pietermaritzburg, a 49-year-old man died after a head-on collision with a bus on the Alan Paton Road yesterday morning. ER24’s Russel Meiring said paramedics arrived to find the man motionless in the front seat of his car. “The bus and light motor vehicle (were) in the middle of the road. The man was assessed and found to have sustained numerous fatal injuries. Nothing could be done for him and he was declared dead.” Daily News He said none of the passengers on the bus were injured, but three were suffering from shock and were taken to hospital.