Westville recently had two consecutive anti-crime convoys to create awareness within the community. The convoys started at the Pavilion Shopping Centre and ended at Westville Girls’ High School. Alex Gloster, Westville CPF chairperson, said they did anti-crime convoys when there was an opportunity and a need. “We don’t want to do it too often or too little, because we can’t have the police attend to the convoy and keep the community safe,” Gloster said. “I recommend convoys as a public awareness measure in conjunction with the police. There are queries as a result of the convoys, and community interest is piqued. After this weekend, there are people who are interested in joining ­patrols,” he said. Along with the police, they regularly checked on crime statistics in the area, he said, and currently there was a downward trend in crime as a result of massive support from the SAPS, metro police, security companies and neighbourhood watches. Wayne le Roux, Westville CPF secretary, said the convoy was a fantastic success, even though it would have been nice to have had more vehicles. “It was requested by SAPS,” Le Roux said. Partnership “We wanted to show the community the partnership between the CPF, SAPS, metro police and the community.” Over the past year, Westville was hit by crime waves, and many interventions were put in place, like around-the-clock patrols and the involvement of deputy mayor Fawzia Peer. Metro police increased visibility and installed CCTV cameras in an effort to monitor and respond effectively to crime. In January 2017, ADT armed response officer Themba Mqikwa was shot dead while responding to an alarm activation at a home in Westville. Umesh Singh, Phoenix CPF chairperson and eThekwini Outer West Cluster, said convoys were a commonly used medium to reach community members in crime awareness. Another successful convoy was recently held in Verulam. Tony da Canha, Pinetown CPF chairperson, said they also held convoys which visited Pinetown, New Germany, Wyebank and Hillcrest. Daily News