Durban - The driver of a Mercedes Benz C-Class was hijacked and his passengers were robbed at gunpoint in Sydenham on Wednesday. A one-minute CCTV video clip captured the incident. The video shows three men getting out of a Toyota Corolla and pointing their firearms at a group of men who had alighted from a  C-Class Mercedes, in their driveway, in Tarndale Avenue. The driver of the Mercedes was still moving the car into the garage when a gun was also pointed at him. He was forced to jump out of the car. While this was happening his passengers were being thoroughly searched by the hijackers. Their phones were taken. None of the victims resisted and held up their hands through the ordeal. It appears they had come back from the evening prayer at a mosque. One of the hijackers, who was last to get into the Mercedes Benz forced one of the victims to hand over his watch. It is alleged that the Toyota the hijackers were using was stolen in Chatsworth on Monday. Sydenham police are investigating a case of hijacking. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  As soon as the video was shared on Facebook these were some of the comments: Xolani Zulu said: "We must all unite against crime! It affects everyone. More so the one who have the least, they lose the most". Mhlabunzima Memela said:"This is so brazen. Let's thank God no one was injured". Lebohang William Khitsane said:"Criminals are bad, Bheki Cele do something please". Amadou Baba said:"Criminals are well organized". Ayeshu Bhabha said:"I have no words! What is going on ? God help us all in this lawless land". Larry Larche said: "We have to stand together, yes the cops are catching some of them but the crime is just getting worse and worse". Yolz Teedow Mngadi said: "All of them had guns how will you save yourself from that many people?" Gcina Hlongwa said: "It will only get worse. The fish rots from the head down". Rivonia K Naidu-Hoffmeester said: "Thank God. This could have been worse. I'm so relieved that this didn't end how do many of these scenes end". Daily News