Each animal caught in a snare suffers a different, but always terrible, fate. Some survive, while others die. These can be different kinds of animals such as antelope, bush pigs, warthog and bush bucks, which are illegally hunted. Last Friday, Werner Taljaard, the field officer at SPCA Lower South Coast, came across two wild buck caught in snares along Shelly Beach. One buck had already decomposed while the other was seen running around the area with a snare stuck around its neck. Taljaard said the dead buck might have been trapped in the snare for at least a week before it died. The wire of the snare around the live buck was cutting into its neck and the buck was bleeding. “The problem with wildlife, especially wild buck, is that as soon as you try to catch them, they go into distress and then they die from stress. So the only way to stop its suffering is to shoot it and put it out of its misery, because prolonging its life is cruel,” he explained. He said they have not been able to locate the injured buck. “We see this often. We get at least two calls a week about animals stuck in snares. Normally the snares are set at water points, because where there is water, there is life,” he said. Taljaard said unless an animal caught in a snare made a noise and could be heard, chances of finding it were slim. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife spokesperson Musa Mntambo said in most cases snares caught threatened or endangered animals. “At some stage we will run out of certain species and our children will never know those animals. The snares also disturb our ecosystem, which will have an impact on human beings,” Mntambo said. He said community conservation officers and environmental monitors visited communities to educate them about the importance of conserving nature. “We also have a programme called Sifundimvelo, which targets schoolchildren and educates them on conservation-related issues. “The use of snares is illegal and a person caught setting a snare can be criminally prosecuted and be subject to a fine or even to imprisonment, depending on the species of animal that was caught or targeted. “The use of traps and poisons is also strictly controlled and misuse can lead to significant fines and/or imprisonment,” he said. This Saturday, the SPCA Lower South Coast and a number of volunteers will be searching for snares at Wild Waves, where the decomposed carcass and buck with a snare around its neck were found. “We will go into the bush and scout the whole bush looking for snares. If we find them we will remove them and destroy them,” Taljaard said. Daily News