Bly Lynden Scott-Williams posted her experience on the Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum (BSUF) Facebook page on Thursday. This week she said she was trying to start a walking club. Four others who experienced similar incidents detailed on the Facebook chat group how they were robbed or knew of other victims. Scott-Williams was walking with her poodle along Lena Ahrens (Manning) Road towards Durban Girls’ High School, as she had done for 15years, when she was robbed by two men at the Rhodes Avenue intersection. “They seemed to come out of nowhere with knives. One had a knife in my face and the other pushed a knife into my back. They grabbed my phone. “Then they ran across the road and got into a car. I screamed and tried to wave down motorists for help,” Scott-Williams said. She said she normally walked with a friend. “My friend overslept, so I left on my own. Big mistake. I think the only safe place for females to walk is on the beachfront,” Scott-Williams said. She said she did not report the incident to the police because she had no faith in them. The incident unfolded less than a week after a march to the Durban City Hall to highlight violence against women, in the #Totalshut Down campaign. August is also Women’s month. In July 2015, a female jogger in the same area near Lena Ahrens Road was forced at gunpoint into a silver VW Polo with three men inside. They drove her to her home in Cato Road and held up her family. Guards When private security guards arrived at the Glenwood home, a robber took the jogger hostage and threatened to shoot her. Gunshots rang out as the security team tried to stop the robbers from escaping with the woman. She was later found unharmed in the robber’s abandoned car in Chesterville. Heather Hayward Rorick, BSUF spokesperson, said that crime was everywhere and not just in Glenwood. “We are sorry to hear about her nasty and traumatic experience. We are glad she was not injured or stabbed. If you want to walk or run, it’s far safer to join a walking or running club in your area,” Rorick said. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, urged crime victims to report incidents.  There was a huge reaction to the incident on the BSUF Facebook page. * Shireen Steytler said her son was mugged at gunpoint on Wednesday morning at the bus stop on ZK Mathews (Nicholson) Road. Two robbers got out of a car and demanded his phone, money and “laptop”. * Dudley Scott Landsberg said: “Unfortunately, Durban is under siege by these savages. This is why there is such a mass exodus of people leaving Durban to go north to Ballito or Cape Town or overseas. You can tell by how the overall scene in Durban has absolutely perished in the last decade.” * Lynda Christie Sprong said: “A young lady student was mugged last week in our road just off Nicholson. Car stopped and guys jumped out and grabbed her laptop and cellphone. Probably same gang!” * Kiara Reade said: “One of my friends almost got robbed by two men in a gold VW Polo on Thursday morning, but he ran away and when they saw him talking to someone, they drove away.” * Gwynaeth van Aardt said: “I have pepper spray on me at all times in my handbag, by the front door, in my car... Already saved my life once!” * Elisabeth Silk said: “It’s so scary. They are cowards. Same thing happened to me in Ferguson Road.” * Alexandra Burgess said: “Dreadful. Glad you are OK. My son just had the same experience in the USA. Wallets and cellphones taken from them at knife point. It is worldwide.” * Jackie Susan Bahrs said: “I have a walking partner and if either of us can’t make it in the morning, we just skip it. I’m not saying that two of us together is any safer, but I won’t walk without her. We walk this route often so thanks for sharing your experience.” * Nathalie Charoux said: “Do not carry any devices or money while walking...! Walk/run in groups of 6 or 8 females. Carry a whistle, around your neck. When you feel threatened or are harassed, blow the whistle until they’re out of sight. Aim is to prevent an attack or any physical contact.” * Louveelco Nel said: “Probably the same guys who accosted my grandson and his friend near Bulwer Park and demanded their phones.” Daily News