Mayor Zandile Gumede and some ANC councillors defended the trip, saying it would benefit the transport industry, which was predominantly black. According to a report tabled at the city’s executive committee (Exco) meeting yesterday, the trip was for delegates to learn how the transport industry worked in South American countries and to expose the industry to the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems there. The city, via the eThekwini Transport Authority, has embarked on the planning, development and roll-out of the Integrated Public Transport Networks (IPTN) in line with the Public Transport Strategy and Action Plan. This process was at an advanced stage, with the C3 Corridor expected to be operational by October. The C3 Corridor is from the north of Durban to Pinetown incorporating the Integrated Rapid Public Transport Network GO!Durban, that will link major residential areas. “The operations on the corridors would be undertaken by the current minibus taxi industry and private bus operators operating on those routes. To capacitate these, a study tour of the South American cities where the IPTN or BRT have been implemented successfully is proposed. Circumstances in South America are very similar to South Africa,” the report read. The delegation would include 14bus operators, two councillors, five ETA officials and 33 representatives from taxi associations around eThekwini. The estimated budget for the trip would be about R2 million and would be paid from the public transport network grant funding. DA and Exco councillor Heinz De Boer demanded to know “who exactly” was going. “Study tours are good, but those who go must be able to pay for themselves. This is the largest delegation ever sent by eThekwini at the expense of the taxpayer.” His counterpart, Nicole Graham, said her party supported the development of the BRT system in Durban and recognised the urgent need for an improved public transport system, but this should not come at a price that could be better used for the delivery of services. IFP and Exco councillor Mdu Nkosi questioned the number of taxi operators on the trip, with council speaker William Mapena saying the number of delegates was justifiable given the number of taxi associations. The matter would be tabled at full council for approval. Daily News