National police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said there had never been such a rule. “If a child is missing, there should be greater urgency, unlike in adults where they could have gone off on their own. Missing persons must be reported immediately because the first 24 hours are the most critical,” Naidoo said. He said every missing person case was different, the sooner it was reported, the sooner it could be circulated, and the better the chances of finding the person. There are many cases of missing children, the most recent being that of 10-year-old Miguel Louw of Sydenham. The Rippon Road Primary School pupil went missing on July 1, 2018. Days later, a man was arrested for Miguel’s kidnapping, but he denied involvement. In court, Miguel’s mother, Raylene Louw, pleaded with the man to tell her where her child was. The man cannot be named at this stage. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said: “We are aware of the R50 000 reward offered by the family for his safe return. “Miguel Louw is still missing and we are appealing to anyone who might have information to contact Sydenham police station or Crime Stop at 0860010111.” Satish Dhupelia, Sydenham Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson, said he wished South Africans could show the same urgency as in other countries, in missing child cases. “It would be nice to see more effort in our communities,” Dhupelia said. “The CPF learnt about Miguel through social media. In turn, we asked people to circulate posters and post them on Facebook. We appeal for his return. His mother is pleading for his return, no questions asked. Police should take the lead in informing the community about what is going on with the investigation,” Dhupelia said. Prem Balram, Reaction Unit SA (Rusa) spokesperson, said they were asked to help look for Miguel and they had searched the North Coast after receiving information. “Over the weekend, we received information that Miguel was in the Sherwood area. On Monday, we will fuel up the helicopter and search there,” Balram said. He said they were asked to help search for a missing person at least three or four times a week. Generally, it was a girl who had run away with her boyfriend, and in most cases those girls returned home. KwaZulu-Natal girl Siphesihle Zamangwane Dlamini, of Amandawe, has been missing since December 31, 2017. Thabsile Dlamini, the mother of the 3-year-old, is still hopeful that her daughter will be found. She said they would put up more posters where Siphesihle went missing. “Even talking about her reminds me that she’s not here. It hurts me,” Dlamini said. Dessie Rechner, director and founder of the Pink Ladies organisation, which raises awareness of missing children, said she had seen an improvement in finding missing children since January. “The teenagers take a little longer,” she said. “We know that the grabbing of young girls, women and children has increased,” Rechner said. She said no two cases were the same and each case should be dealt with on its merits. Daily News