Durban - The Lakehaven Youth and Child Development Centre is operating under crisis conditions, the Democratic Alliance (DA) said. This follows the party’s oversight inspection of the facility last week. Sharon Hoosen, MPL, party spokesperson on social development said she had written to social welfare department MEC Weziwe Thusi for urgent intervention into the matter. “While the facility has been rebuilt after a fire tragically claimed the lives of eight in 2016, the home’s new management team revealed to the DA that it is facing numerous challenges which include a complete lack of social worker services by the department," Hoosen said. "We are equally concerned by management’s confirmation that the department has failed to ensure that social workers work with parents so that the correct environment is created for children when they are reunited with their families; there is no oversight by social workers when children do go home – to monitor both their actions and the environment they are in; and children are not going home on weekends as social workers tend to avoid filling in the long and tedious leave forms. This has led to a situation where children are only sent home during the holidays,” she said. She alleged that the home’s one social worker had not visited since May. The situation at Lakehaven is extremely serious. New buildings mean nothing if the children within these walls are not receiving the necessary support from social workers and other professionals. Hoosen said her attempts to get a report into the fire that killed seven children and an adult were unsuccessful. She said she was told that the manager at the time of the tragedy had since resigned from the facility. The cause of the fire was said to be accidental, but no report had been made public into the investigation. Ncumisa Ndelu, a department spokesperson confirmed receipt of the letter from the DA and said Thusi had instructed the department head to attend to the concerns raised about the facility. Daily News