On Sunday, metro police had to intervene and extract members of the steering committee in that ward and a proportional representative (PR) councillor who was held hostage in a community hall. A member being held hostage was accused of calling eThekwini Municipality’s security management unit (SMU) and a security company. According to community leader Khayalethu July, they began clearing the land on Friday, and on Saturday the SMU came to the area with a security company, which opened fire on them with live ammunition. Siyanda Ndlovu, 18, was fatally shot, and Sandile Khumalo is in hospital in a coma. Three other people were said to be in critical condition. “Siyanda, after being shot in the shoulder, managed to make it to a nearby house. He was trying to get help and he was shot in the neck while he was on the floor. He was also kicked by the SMU member while down,” July said. He said since the community was being stopped from clearing the land, it demanded to meet the area councillor, who repeatedly said she was too scared to go to the area and instead sent a PR councillor. “Today the community wanted to beat the guy from the steering committee. He then promised that on Monday he will give us a letter permitting us to continue clearing that land.” Area July said he had lived in the area for 18 years and the community had been waiting for RDP houses. “Because the municipality doesn’t want to build us houses, they must let us build our own houses on that land,” he said. When the Daily News went to the area on Sunday, Piet Retief Road and Turquoise Place were blocked with rocks and burning tyres. Siyanda Ndlovu’s sister, Ntombenhle Ndlovu, said she had given him R180 to buy nappies for her child when he was killed. “I got the money back from the lady whose house he had gone to for help after being shot. She told us when she tried to phone an ambulance to help him, the SMU member who was kicking him while he lay on the ground slapped her,” Ndlovu said. The family also says they want to see justice served even though it would not bring back Siyanda. A relative said: “We know what happens in South Africa. People get away with these things. “We will be following up closely, especially with the post-mortem results and outcome of ballistics tests. Justice must be done. “Siyanda was young, he had his life ahead of him. There was so much he still had to live for,” the relative said. The family also say the municipality should pay for Siyanda’s funeral. He was an orphan. Area councillor Samantha Windvogel said today she hoped to meet someone from the mayor’s office, someone from “land invasion” and the SAPS to get full details. She said it was a concern that roads would be closed by the community because the area was particularly busy with traffic. Daily News