The commission, headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, is investigating allegations that the politically-connected Gupta family had undue influence over former president Jacob Zuma in the appointment of cabinet ministers and at state-owned enterprises. Speaking to the Daily News after he posted on social media a copy of the infamous Bearing Order he was issued three days before his wedding, Judge Pillay said the country should ensure that it did not go back to those days. “This is for the ‘born-frees’, to help them understand the paranoia of the security police in the heydays of apartheid. I was at the time banned under the Suppression of Communism Act. The letter is a response to my application to attend my wedding on 22nd August 1965. “The refusal was based on fears that known communists like JN Singh, Ismail Meer, Fatima Meer, Monty Naicker and Hassen Mall were likely invitees to the wedding. “My wife Dolly attended the reception alone. However, I was allowed an hour to attend the religious ceremony 53years ago today. For those wanting access to security branch files once secret and now ‘declassified’, they are available from the National Archives under the Promotion of Access to Information Act. I successfully used the act to gain access to my file from about 1958,” he had posted. Banned under the Suppression of Communism Act, Judge Pillay was also not allowed to leave Durban, attend social or political gatherings, or have more than one visitor at his home. He had to supply the security police with a list of all the wedding guests. Yesterday, Judge Pillay said revelations such as those made last week by former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas when he told the Zondo Commission that he was offered the position of minister of finance and bribes of R600million and R600000 by one of the Gupta brothers, were shocking. He said such allegations made him wonder why no one was charged at the time. “Why do we wait for commissions of inquiry to happen, when in this case this happened two years ago?” he asked. Jonas had claimed that he never reported this because he had lost faith in the criminal justice system and the Hawks. Judge Pillay said the extent of corruption gave him sleepless nights. “I get worried and would sometimes lay awake at night thinking about what the apartheid laws did to us, to our families and to our freedom. And the thoughts of how corruption has become the new problem in our country after apartheid. “The revelations made at the commission of inquiry into state capture show the extent of corruption,” he said. Judge Pillay said the painful days of apartheid were, however, eased in his mind by the freedom enjoyed by the youth of today. “At least the youth of today are able to travel wherever they wish and whenever. They get to party the whole night and attend any social, political or wedding event they wish, and have as many visitors in their home as they can. “Use that freedom wisely because as a country, we cannot afford to go back to apartheid.” Daily News