Durban - A suspect in a housing sale scam has been arrested in Durban following an undercover investigation by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Human Settlements and security agencies. MEC Ravi Pillay said the man was arrested during a sting operation by the Provincial Trio Crime Task Team and Commercial Crimes Investigation Unit working closely with the department. This follows an anonymous tip-off and several weeks of officials observing the suspect holding meetings with “prospective buyers” in the vicinity of the ministry offices in Mayville. "The modus operandi was to dupe people into paying deposits and issuing receipts under the signature of a person calling himself Mthembu. The department has established that this is an alias. The name of the suspect can only be revealed once he appears in court," MEC Pillay. He said it was now apparent that the recent land invasions might have to do with this fraudulent scam. "We shall be robust in tackling land invasions while at the same time exposing the unscrupulous con persons taking advantage of the vulnerable and unsuspecting desperate members of the public seeking housing. Members of the public should not to be gullible and fall victims to con artists masquerading as bona fide housing officials,” he said. He said his department was probing claims that the arrested suspect could be an office bearer of the Cato Manor chapter of a social movement. The arrest follows close on the heels of Pillay launching a fraud prevention plan on Friday with targeted strategies to root out corruption both within the public service and by external fraudsters. "We are very concerned about both this kind of fraud as well as people who illegally sell government houses often at a fraction of what it cost to build," he said. Government has provided over 4 million free houses for the poor since 1994. Illegal sales invariably lead to the beneficiaries returning to informal settlements and putting pressure on housing backlogs. Pillay said he hoped that this arrest would serve as a deterrent and demonstrate that government was serious about prosecuting wrongdoers. Daily News 