Durban - One person was killed and scores were injured in three separate road incidents in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands on Monday afternoon. ER24 paramedics responded to all three incidents. Russel Meiring, ER24 spokesperson, said in the first incident, a car and a taxi crashed in the Pietermaritzburg city centre, which left eight people injured. “ER24 paramedics, along with other services, were dispatched to the incident. Upon arrival, paramedics found the taxi and light motor vehicle in the middle of the intersection. The occupants from both vehicles were found seated on the pavement nearby. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that eight people had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. Fortunately, there were no serious injuries,” said Meiring. He said the patients were treated and transported to Greys and Northdale Provincial hospitals for further care. In the second incident, a man was killed and two others were left injured when a bakkie rolled over in Thornville. “Upon arrival, paramedics found a bakkie lying on its side at the bottom of the embankment. Two men were found walking around at the scene. Paramedics assessed the men and found that both had sustained only minor injuries. While treating the men, paramedics were told that a third man was trapped beneath the rear of the bakkie. A third man, believed to be in his 30s, was found lying trapped beneath the rear wheel of the bakkie. Unfortunately, the man had already succumbed to his injuries. Nothing could be done for him and he was declared dead,” he said. He said the men were treated but refused to be taken to hospital. In the third incident, a man was left in a critical condition when a truck overturned in Hammarsdale on Monday afternoon. He said when paramedics arrived, they found a large tipper-truck lying in the middle of the road and a load of sand was spread across the road and the scene. “Upon closer inspection, paramedics found a man lying amongst the sand near the vehicle. Assessment showed that the man had sustained numerous crush injuries to both his legs, as well as one of his hands. Treatment and advanced life support interventions were immediately initiated, in an effort to stabilise the patients critical condition. Once treated, the man was transported to Greys Provincial Hospital for further care,” he said. He said it is believed the man had been in the back of the truck when it overturned. Police were at the scene of all three incidents and were investigating. Daily News