Durban - Recently R.K. Khan hospital has come under fire for various issues such as nurse negligence, botched surgeries, the list goes on. On February 25, Dianne Theresa Rautenbach uploaded 15 pictures on Facebook, which show the state of R.K. Khan hospital, accompanied by a simple caption: Welcome to RK Khan Hospital and this is just the outside. Disgusting! The pictures show dusty and dirty windows, unsafe stairs, beds along the staircase, stained bathtubs and sinks, toilets with missing cistern lids, trash near a bit, cigarette butts, broken windows and so much more. Rautenbach’s post was shared more than 1 900 times and has over 50 reactions and comments. This is how some of her Facebook friends responded to her post: Devon Beard: I picked up one of my workers last year from this place. Thee most disgusting place I’ve ever stepped foot into. I saw a number of people just bleeding out, lying there dying .. it’s the norm at this Hell Hole Laurelle Bronwyn Williams: I spent 4 days there last week. For the most part, the nurses were great - definitely over worked but they do their best with the resources they are given. The hospital had no space in the wards and people were waiting and sleeping outside the whole night (i could hear someone getting physically sick all night while they were queues outside. The blood in the pictures on the bed I was on is not mine.... not do I know who it belongs to Kwanda Ngcobo: Name and shame the maintenance team, hygiene company and hopefully with proper management and funding this can change....this is awful I'm sure ppl die by just walking in.. Shunmugam Ponusamy: All the state run hospital need urgent attention besides Chief Albert Luthuli hospital.wish all the hospital can be clean like that.The RSA President need to change his health minister. and sort some of his senior hospital staff Nomcebo KaNto Sibisi: This is so sad my half sister died at this hospital because of hygiene and negligence this is 2007 actually makes me so angry that more than 10 years later it’s still the same story looks even worse... we need to tag the National and provincial ministers of health this is disgusting and in violation of basic human rights. Daily News