Durban - Three men, who robbed and killed a pastor in in 2015, were convicted and sentenced in the Dundee Regional Court recently. During the trial, the court heard how  Vusumuzi Themba Mbhele, Nala Dlamini and Aphiwe Matiwane forced their victim to withdraw cash from an ATM before they fatally assaulted him and dumped his body. On March 15, 2015, Pastor Hamilton Zulu of the Ezakheni Salvation Army was on his way to conduct business in Dundee when he stopped at the side of the road to give five men a lift. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said Zulu picked up the men. Further on he again picked up another hitchhiker, Jabulani Kweswa who was also on his way to Nqutu.  As he was driving his Avanza vehicle towards Nqutu, the men attacked Zulu and Kweswa. Kweswa was stabbed and his body dumped at the side of the road. The men thought Kweswa was dead,” Zwane said. Kweswa was picked up by a passing vehicle and rushed to hospital. One of the men forced Zulu out of the driver’s seat and drove back to Dundee where they forced him to withdraw money from an ATM. He was further assaulted and taken to an area in Glencoe where the men continued to assault him. His body was dumped in the bushes near Sunset Rest. Zwane said Zulu’s family became suspicious when he did not return home. They went to open a missing person’s case at the Ezakheni police station. A week later, Zulu’s vehicle was found abandoned at the Nyanyadu area. “On further investigation, five suspects were arrested at Glencoe area who were seen driving the same vehicle by the community members.  They were found in possession of perfumes belonging to the pastor. One of the suspects made a pointing out and the body of Zulu was found near Sunset Rest, Glencoe. A case of murder was opened at Glencoe police station and five suspects were charged accordingly. Jabulani Kweswa survived and was a key witness in this case. Through court hearings, two suspects were acquitted and the other three were convicted and sentenced accordingly, Zwane said. Mbhele, 32, was sentenced to 20 years for murder, 15 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances and another 15 years for armed robbery at Dundee. Nala Dlamini, 28, was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment for murder, 12 years for robbery aggravating circumstances and a further 12 for Dundee armed robbery. Aphiwe Matiwane, 20, was sentenced to 10 years for murder and 10 years for armed robbery. Mbhele will serve only 25 years imprisonment, Dlamini to serve 20 years and Matiwane to serve 10 years imprisonment. Daily News