Thulani Sambo, 24, and four  friends were enjoying themselves in the sea when they got into difficulty. Sambo’s older brother, Khutso Sambo, 28, said Thulani and his friends began swimming at 10am. Two had not swum in the ocean before. Sambo, who heard about the incident from friends, said the five men kept going back and forth into the water at intervals. “They decided to go in for one last dip at around midday. They were in different positions in the water, but close by, when a wave toppled them. They all got into difficulty. People screamed for the lifeguard’s attention. The three were saved but my brother had disappeared,” Sambo said. When Sambo arrived at the beach he walked along the promenade and piers, looking out for his brother, in the hope he might be alive. “Yesterday (Monday) at 5am I walked along the beachfront praying that I would find him. Words cannot explain the emotions that overcame me when I saw him floating near the pier at North Beach,” Sambo said. He described his brother as intelligent and an exceptional mechanical engineering student. Sambo said it was not only a loss to the family but the world, because his brother was young and had much to offer. Sambo, who lives in Durban, said they were arranging for the body to be picked up from the mortuary and taken to Mpumalanga today. “My mother had a stroke last year. She is still recovering and was overcome with emotion. My father is speechless after I told him what happened. His friends are still in shock. In total we were five brothers and two sisters,” Sambo said. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said divers from the Durban Search and Rescue Unit, along with the eThekwini Municipality lifeguards, went to the North Beach Pier after receiving a report of a body floating in the shore break. An inquest docket has been opened at Durban Central SAPS. Later the same day, during the heavy rains, a Chatsworth man, 23-year-old Nonhlanhla Mpako, was swept into a culvert and is still missing. The Chatsworth police Search and Rescue unit searched several low streams and culverts near the Chatsworth stadium for him. Captain Nqobile Gwala said police were alerted to a call that a 23-year-old man had been washed away into the stormwater culvert in heavy rain in the Chatsworth area. Police had not found his body despite an intensive search effort. Mpako lived with his aunt,  Kholeka Ndlela, in Welbedacht East, near Chatsworth. Ndlela said they were concerned about what had actually happened because a friend who was with Mpako when he disappeared gave them a different account of what transpired. “We went to the area where his friend claimed Nonhlanhla fell. Police have not given us feedback as yet, if they found him. He often accompanied his friend to repair cars. “We are praying Nonhlanhla is okay. I last saw him on Sunday morning,” Ndlela said. Meanwhile, in Dundee, the search continues for Warrant Officer Arnesh “Jakes” Juggan, 56, his wife Molly, 54, and their friend, Ashoak Rajoo, 53, who were missing since Friday night. They are presumed to have been been washed away while trying to cross a low bridge over the Buffalo River between Dundee and Vryheid. Daily News