In his affidavit opposing bail, read out to the Durban Regional Court yesterday by State Advocate Dorian Paver, Lieutenant-Colonel Bhekumuzi Sikhakhane said the accusation made by Khayelihle Mbuthuma, one of the accused, was a figment of his imagination. Sikhakhane denied arresting Mbuthuma and his associates because he had succumbed to pressure from one of the factions at the hostel. He said Mbuthuma made this accusation to boost his chances of being granted bail. Mbuthuma - as well as Ncomecile Matlala Ntshangase, Eugene Wonderboy Hlophe, Mbuyiselwa Mahliphiza Mkhize, Vukani Mcobothi and Mondli Talente Mthethwa - faces charges of murder, attempted murder and racketeering among others. Mthethwa abandoned his bail application. The violence at the hostel has claimed about 106 lives since 2014. Sikhakhane said his team was tasked to investigate after cases were not being investigated properly at uMlazi police station. “Given the sheer plethora of cases, it took time to identify witnesses who would be prepared to assist us in our investigations, given the levels of intimidation that exist. Furthermore, we had to overcome a lack of trust on the part of witnesses because of the officers seized during the investigation of these matters,” he said. Conflicts He said their investigations revealed conflicts between residents of various blocks at the hostel. Sikhakhane said he was from Ulundi and was therefore impartial in the matter. He had no previous association with uMlazi township when he and his colleagues, Lieutenant-Colonel Mbhekeni Mazibuko and Detective Warrant Officer Thulani Mwelase, began working on the case. They opposed bail because the accused were facing serious charges and, in the event of a conviction, the men faced a lengthy prison sentence. Sikhakhane argued that witnesses feared for their lives and would be reluctant to testify if the accused were released on bail. “Even if bail conditions are to be fixed, it would be exceedingly difficult for me, as the investigating officer, to monitor compliance with these conditions,” Sikhakhane said. “If the accused were to make a run for it, it would be extremely difficult to track them down again,” he said. “In my experience, accused charged with the category of crimes with which the applicants are charged rarely honour the bail condition that they appear in court, or severely disrupt the progress of the trial,” he said. Earlier in the proceedings, Mcobothi had argued he should be granted bail because he had been falsely accused and had no prior convictions. He argued he could afford to pay R3000 bail. He also said he had a family to support. The matter was adjourned by magistrate Siphiwe Hlophe to April 10. Daily News