Rat droppings and traces of a nest were also found under the bonnet of the couple’s Honda Brio. For the past few months, residents at a block of flats in North Beach have been plagued by rats which have wreaking havoc. Despite calls to the eThekwini Municipality’s health unit, no one has come to clean the drains around Protea flats in Nathaniel Isaac Crescent. The woman, who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity, was horrified to learn that rats had taken refuge in her car’s engine. She said they had taken the car to the dealership after a warning light flashed on the dashboard. There was also a strange sound coming from the engine whenever they started it. “I checked the owner’s manual and could not find out what the flashing light meant. So my husband and I took the car to the dealership. We parked it in the workshop and went upstairs to speak to someone. “We were explaining what the issue was when we heard one of the men in the workshop shouting for us to come and see what was wrong. He had the bonnet open and we could see that rats had started making a nest around the engine. There were also rat droppings inside the car,” she said. The woman said the noise coming from the engine was related to wires leading to the engine. These had been eaten by the rats. “The water container for the windscreen wipers was also damaged,” the woman said. She said she feared parking at the flat because they were worried about the rats causing further damage to the car. “We do not know what to do. Our car now has to park on the road. Just the other day, my neighbour and I were standing outside and saw a rat running past us,” she said. The woman said another neighbour’s car was also damaged and had to be towed away. Helene Williams, Protea flats’ body corporate chairperson, said she had been living there for the past 30 years and had never experienced this before. Williams said the rat infestation was a huge problem for them. “The municipality is supposed to come and clean out the drains and spray (insecticide). I have been calling them but with no luck,” she said. Williams aid the matter needed urgent attention because it posed serious health hazards to residents. Commenting on the matter, Dr Imran Keeka, the DA’s spokesperson for health, said the municipality had a major responsibility in ensuring the rats issue was investigated and dealt with. The rat issue comes just days after Durban was announced as the country’s most liveable city. Gugu Sisilana of the eThekwini Municipality’s communications unit said the matter had been referred to their health unit. Daily News