“The training of medicine around the world is not universal and training differs from country to country,” the minister told the National Assembly about the internship of students who studied abroad, specifically China. He was responding to IFP MP Narend Singh, who had asked about the outcry from students who had studied abroad, and had been told to complete their internship in the country where they had studied before they could sit for their Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) exams. Professor Mark Sonderup, of the SA Medical Association (Sama), said they were looking into the legal framework of the Health Department’s regulations, and were hoping to resolve this issue amicably. According to a recent Sunday Tribune report, student doctors said these regulations were imposed last month, after having been introduced in 2009, but not being enforced. They said it was not possible to complete internships in some countries because of work-permit issues. They felt their only option was to return to South Africa and complete their internship here, but the Health Department apparently would not accept this, even on a voluntary basis. Motsoaledi, pictured, said it was a very serious matter. “The Free State province, which officially sent students to China, is busy re-routing them to Cuba and Russia because of the problem that exists there. I want to dissuade you from believing that because there is a shortage of doctors in South Africa, everything that comes in is welcome in this country. That is wrong. “The training of medicine around the world is not universal. It differs from country to country depending on their culture and on their living conditions, so for that reason a doctor trained in another part of the world cannot become a doctor here,” Motsoaledi said. HPCSA  spokesperson Priscilla Sekhonyana said a notice was issued to affected practitioners applying for the board exams. Seventy-seven students who studied medicine abroad had applied for the exams. Popo Maja, the national Health Department’s spokesperson, said students needed to do their internship in the countries where their training was done. Maja said people could not be allowed to practise in South Africa without certification by the HPCSA. “Alternatively, those countries’ institutions of higher learning must make arrangements with South African institutions to facilitate supervision,” she said. Sonderup said: “We await an opinion from our senior counsel.” He said other countries, especially China, had a greater number of medical schools which allowed them to accommodate far more students than South Africa could. “In this country, the top pupils are selected. This is a challenge because if you have 1000 applicants, only 100 are selected,” Sonderup said. He said the syllabus and curriculum might vary slightly, but this did not necessarily mean that what the students learnt was not compatible to the health system in South Africa. “It does not mean that training abroad makes them incompetent.” Daily News