Meal vouchers of R10 000 were paid to some students who qualified for them on the National Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) this week, while others received nothing, resulting in lectures being suspended after violent clashes between students and the police. Student representative council (SRC) leaders are worried the error will cause problems for students who will not be responsible and spend the money all at once. Most of the qualifying students reportedly did not receive the allowances. These were mostly first-year students, and it led to a two-day strike at different DUT campuses starting on Tuesday. The chaos led to the suspension of lectures on Tuesday, until after the Easter holidays. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala said students damaged two police vans with stones and caused damage to the university building. “About 400 students clashed with the police. Two police officers were injured. A case of public violence was opened. No one was arrested,” she said. DUT spokesperson Alan Khan said the management had decided to suspend on-campus lectures for full-time students at the five Durban campuses. Lectures for full-time students would resume on Tuesday. The lectures for BTech and part-time students would continue as planned, he said. The academic programme would continue as normal at the Indumiso and Riverside campuses in Pietermaritzburg. Sinoxolo Mahlatshana, the deputy-secretary of the SA Students Congress (Sasco), said they led the strike to force the university to attend to their complaints about the non-payment of meal allowances. He said students were supposed to receive a R1 000 meal voucher and R600 cash a month as well as book allowances allocated to each qualifying student at the beginning of the year. “Only a few students were paid meal vouchers so far, and the majority were forced to go hungry since the beginning of the year. We are also concerned about those who were paid allowances for the whole year. These students received R10000 worth of meal vouchers, and we are worried that they will blow it in one go,” said Mahlatshana. Khan said NSFAS senior management and support staff were on campus to assist DUT students who had not received their S-BUX allowances. “The university, in conjunction with the team from NSFAS, is working tirelessly to ensure that all funds are disbursed to the students who qualify for NSFAS support.” He said DUT management met the SRC on Tuesday and informed the student body of the steps that were being taken to resolve the problem with the vouchers for meals and book allowances. All students were informed via e-mail and SMSes that NSFAS would continue to be on campus, working towards resolving the issue. “The university wishes to apologise to all staff, students and all stakeholders who may be inconvenienced as a result of the suspension of lectures for full-time students in Durban,” said Khan. Daily News