Peter Petersen, a member of the Bluff Yacht Club, said it was the second spill into the canal recently. The Amanzimnyama Canal is situated between Bluff and Dayal roads and goes under Dr Solomon Mahlangu (Edwin Swales) Drive. It begins at Kenyon Howden Road and leads under Dr Solomon Mahlangu Drive into Bayhead Road, exiting by Grunter Gully and the Bluff Yacht Club. Moshe Motlohi, Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) Durban port manager, said that on February 22, the club notified TNPA pollution control of a spill. Motlohi said a clean-up was done immediately. The next day, the Department of Water Affairs confirmed to TNPA that an unknown suspect had dumped almost 20000 litres of oil upstream next to the Umhlathuzana Canal leading into the harbour. On Tuesday, TNPA was notified of the other spill. “The canal is outside of port limits and falls under the jurisdiction of the eThekwini Municipality, which was also notified along with other relevant stakeholders. The substance, heavy furnace oil, was reported to have sprayed mostly on to the grass,” he said. “The spill was contained with the aid of booms. During the clean-up operation, it was also discovered that there was old brown oil in the municipal weirs. This is likely the substance that is affecting yachts at the Bluff Yacht Club, following the February incident,” Motlohi said. The TNPA has taken an additional precautionary measure of deploying two booms across the Amanzimnyama Canal to minimise any flow into port limits. Petersen said the boats were stained and they had to fork out huge sums of money to clean and repair their boats after spills. He was also concerned about the environment, the destruction of the mangroves and bird life. Ivor Aylward, a concerned Bluff resident, called for harsher penalties, instead of a slap on the wrist, for those caught spilling oil and chemicals into the rivers and canals. Desmond D'Sa, the co-ordinator of South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, walked with his team along the canal and was confident he had found the source. “The harbour had already been polluted at the yacht club. This boils down to a lack of enforcement and sanctions imposed on polluters by the city officials. All the citizens should be angry at what is happening to our rivers, streams and ocean,” he said. “The city is also not transparent with its feedback reports. We are denied access to spill reports,” D'Sa said. Tozi Mthethwa, municipal spokesperson, said they were investigating the matter. Daily News