Durban - Friday March 16, marks the start of World Salt Awareness Week and this year’s theme is “Salt and Children”, which runs from March 16 to March 22. Dr Mzukisi Grootboom, chairperson of the South African Medical Association, said World Salt Awareness Week is a reminder for people to understand the link between health and salt intake. Grootboom said there is a link between high blood pressure and excess dietary salt, especially in African people. The consequences of high blood pressure, known as the ‘Silent Killer’ are huge, including increased risks of heart disease, stroke and kidney failure. He said data suggests that children and adolescents in Africa, especially those located within rural areas, have a high prevalence of elevated blood pressure. He said the fourth goal of the South African Strategic Plan on the Prevention and Control of Non-Communicable Diseases is to reduce the mean population intake of salt to less than five grams per day by 2020. He also said the daily intake includes all ingested salt, whether it is added while food is prepared or at the table. This would mean that per day, the average South African eats or uses less than five of the salt sachets one gets with a takeaway meal or one level teaspoon of salt. However, he notes that many foods still have a lot of hidden salt in them, even foods that do not necessarily taste salty. “We all have a responsibility to read the labels and choose foods with less salt. Most pre-packed foods have a nutritional label on the back or side, but it is much harder to eat less salt when eating out in restaurants and ordering a takeaway meal,” he said. He said ensuring that your child does not eat too much salt means that you are ensuring they do not develop a taste for salty food, which makes them less likely to eat too much salt as an adult. “During Salt Awareness Week we urge all households, manufacturers and those in the food industry, to be salt wise. Let us all do our bit to switch to healthier habits,” he said. Professor Pamela Naidoo, CEO of the Heart and Stroke Foundation South Africa emphasized the importance of reducing salt in one’s diet. “Excessive salt is one of the key drivers of raised blood pressure which in turn places one at risk for cardiovascular diseases which includes heart disease, stroke and other circulatory medical conditions. It’s in every person’s interest to limit salt intake to 5g a day. It’s also vitally important to guide young children about making healthy food choices,” Naidoo said. Daily News