Elijah Mhlanga, the department’s spokesperson, was responding to questions put to them about a call by hundreds of Daily News readers who believed their children were simply too busy doing homework to run about and make childhood memories. Last month, the Daily News published an article about a no-homework policy that was adopted by a Cape Town private school. The idea was that children should not be given homework but rather engage in fun extramural activities. However, according to Mhlanga, it is critical that parents play a role in their children’s education. “They cannot expect schools to carry the load of educating the young ones on their own,” he said. Mhlanga said the department had developed and distributed workbooks, spending billions of rand in the process, to help pupils and parents to learn together at home beyond the classroom. “The literacy rate is high in South Africa and we wish that each family gets actively involved in supporting their children. Research recently released indicates that our children at foundation phase are battling to read for meaning, which implies that so much more needs to be done both at home and in school regarding the literacy and numeracy skills of our children. “Homework plays a part in ensuring that parents play their role in supporting their children,” he said. Necessary Mhlanga said if a private school determined that homework was not necessary, and parents agreed with measures put in place to close learning gaps, then they were welcome to adopt such a policy. Nomarashiya Caluza, provincial secretary of Sadtu, said they believed work should be given to pupils to complete at home. She added that it was, however, critical for teachers to properly plan homework distribution across subjects to avoid overburdening parents who have to assist all their children in all subjects. “A homework policy of the institution must reflect this reality. Homework should not ridiculously create night classes where parents become pupils. If a school were to give pupils three pieces of homework daily this translates to massive work for a parent with two or more pupils in that school. “This may not be educationally sound if almost half of the school work for pupils is done by parents who are basically not part of the learning environment during the interactive session in classes during the day,” Caluza said. She said when assigning homework, teachers must also be considerate of the reality that some parents never went to school and some pupils do not have parents or are from child-headed households. A parent told the Daily News that for three weeks, she had to force her 10-year-old daughter to stop doing homework and be in bed by 10pm. “She takes a 45-minute break to eat and shower and the rest of the time she attends to her homework. After 9pm, we are both so frustrated and tired. We are fighting all the time. She studies over the weekends as tests and examinations are set on a Monday. “It is difficult to know what is happening in my children’s lives or spend quality time with them. They cry that they also want their own time to just relax or do something interesting,” the woman said. Daily News