Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana on Tuesday announced that after reports of schools having a surplus of the products, he had instructed his head of department to investigate these allegations. Dlungwana was speaking at a media briefing at Dokkies Training College, in Glenwood, Durban, after a one-day seminar with education officials. He said there were allegations that fee-paying schools that were not supposed to benefit were benefiting from the sanitary pads programme. The National Teachers’ Union blew the whistle on the issue recently and requested Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga to establish a forensic investigation into the misappropriation of funds in the department, particularly the rolling out of the sanitary pads project. Head of Education Vusumuzi Nzama said the probe, expected to begin soon, would first have to establish which schools were oversupplied. “We are going to collect the items where there is a surplus and take them to where there is a demand. The investigation will, secondly, establish who were responsible for it and why it happened,” Nzama said. About 10 schools in Umbumbulu alone, including primary schools, had a surplus of sanitary pads to such an extent that they did not know what to do with them. Principals at these schools had complained, saying the money should have been channelled elsewhere. Responding to the department’s promise to collect the packs of pads, the principals said it was about time that somebody listened to hem after they were allegedly ignored at district level when they reported the oversupply. An Umbumbulu primary school principal said he would be happier if the department would ask them how many sanitary pads they needed before making the delivery. “That way we could prevent a lot of taxpayers’ money from being wasted. They should be taken to deep-rural disadvantaged schools where there is a demand for them, and channel the money into buying more books and furniture,” said the concerned principal. The Daily News has learnt that the company appointed in the procurement of sanitary pads was a transversal and open tender which all education departments were told to use. “The allegations of the oversupply will be investigated and those found to be responsible will be brought to book,” the MEC said. Daily News