This is an effort to address the sexual harassment of pupils and the meting out of corporal punishment which, although illegal, was still perpetrated by some teachers. This would mean that all registered teachers would have to undergo an assessment to see if they qualified to be teachers before they could be re-registered. Newly qualified teachers would also be expected to complete the assessment before they could be registered. Ella Mokgalane, the Chief Executive of Sace - a body that monitors the code of conduct and ethics of teachers - told the Daily News at the Principals’ Conference hosted by the National Teachers’ Union (Natu) on Thursday that this was one of the solutions proposed to end corporal punishment and sexual assault cases. Natu is celebrating its centenary this year. Mokgalane said although the council was receiving more sexual assault cases than corporal punishment cases, there was still no solution to the latter. She was speaking in the wake of reported incidents of teachers who were still using corporal punishment, and of pupils assaulting teachers. Mokgalane said the guidelines outlined in the Basic Education Department’s Alternative to Corporal Punishment Document, released 10 years ago, were not working. Most teachers argued that the alternatives, which included detention, were not effective punishments. “We found that teachers believe the alternatives to be a one-size-fits-all approach which did not work. This was argued by mostly teachers at public schools, while teachers at the former Model C schools found the alternatives usable but not effective,” said Mokgalane. Some principals who attended the conference said teachers began becoming victims of violence from the day corporal punishment was made illegal. Others expressed fear that the level of violence from disobedient children was demoralising teachers and causing many to be unhappy. Mokgalane said Sace considered the screening and re-registration of teachers as a means to help restore professionalism and reduce incidents of corporal punishment and sexual harassment. Mokgalane said Sace would soon begin conducting research to establish what drives corporal punishment. “We are working on a robust advocacy campaign that will involve all education stakeholders and involve parents. “We need tougher analysis to deal with the environment and factors that contribute to corporal punishment, the same way we dealt with cases of sexual harassment of pupils by their teachers. “Research into sexual harassment cases established that the underlying factors that contributed to the problem had more to do with the teachers’ background and the environment they grew up in,” she said. Mokgalane said the council could not do anything about the conduct of pupils assaulting teachers because it was not part of the council’s mandate, but they were hoping for a quick resolution that would protect teachers in the classroom. Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation, said they supported the move. “We are supporting the proposal although we are still waiting for more details before we can commit to it. “The screening of teachers over a long period of time to monitor their conduct is important. We find that there are repeat offenders getting back into the system. The assessments and screening from time to time would assist in restoring professionalism in teaching,” she said. Natu deputy president Allen Thompson said the union rejected the proposal and would fight it to ensure that no teacher already in the system was de-registered. “The teachers in the system were assessed way back in different situations and met the criteria. We would not allow any amendment or introduction of a policy that seeks to de-register any teacher from the system,” he said. Thompson said Sace should rather be protecting teachers by ensuring that they stayed in the system and helping them improve their profession instead of wanting to de-register them. Daily News