The community cited fears for the safety of witnesses in the drug-stricken Wentworth area and labelled Houston as a known and feared drug dealer. The court heard that Parsons’s shooting was a mistake and that the hit was intended on another woman parked at the garage in a red vehicle. Instead, the shooter fired at Parsons, also in a red car. Darryl Murrison, 33, and Houston, 26, both of Wentworth, are facing murder and attempted murder charges in connection with the February 24 shooting. Murrisson has abandoned his bail application, while Houston, who pleaded not guilty, made his application on Wednesday. The affidavit by the garage owner said the incident had left staff traumatised and fearing that nothing would stop Houston from returning for the witnesses. Houston’s application was, however, adjourned after the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Erugubathy Naidoo, asked for a break during his cross-examination, complaining of the heat. He was later examined by paramedics before being taken to hospital. Adjourned The matter was adjourned to on Thursday for Naidoo to continue with his cross-examination. Naidoo had told the court the State had evidence that Parsons’s shooting was a case of mistaken identity and that Houston and Murrisson were seen on video footage driving into the petrol station in a white VW Polo, following a red Chery QQ3. He said Parsons’s red VW Polo then arrived and parked. She waited for her husband in the car. “Houston was seen taking a gun and tucking it in his pants and they both walked to the shop. “One of them (Murrisson) bought a pie and a bottle of water and walked out of the shop. Outside, Murrison was seen firing two shots at Parsons,” said Naidoo. He said the hit was intended on a woman in the red Chery. The shooting was meant to be revenge for the murder of Houston’s relative, Llewellyn Edwards, in Wentworth last year. Joseph Errol Ernest and his son, Juade, allegedly shot and killed Edwards outside Lavo nightclub. The woman in the red Chery is believed to have been Antoinette Ernest, Joseph Ernest’s wife. Naidoo told the court they were still waiting for the results of tests on a licensed firearm seized, and DNA results, to finalise the State’s evidence. More charges could be added later. Defence attorney Riedwaan Sayed asked Naidoo for assurances that the video footage was safe and would not be tampered with, and asked why the public would fear Houston if the hit had been intended for someone else. The bail application is expected to continue on Thursday. Daily News