Durban - Mxolisi Kaunda, KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community and Safety Liaison attended a prayer for safety ahead of the Easter weekend in Matiwane near Ladysmith, north of KwaZulu-Natal. Kaunda addressed over 2 000 congregants and urged religious leaders to pray for divine intervention in curbing road fatalities and social ills in communities. He also urged community members to change their mindset towards road safety and to behave responsibly. He was more concerned about Ladysmith which was recently rocked by killings related to taxi operations. He asked for public transport operators to conduct their operations in a peaceful manner. However, he commended operators for the peace and calm in the area after he decided to shutdown operations. “It was not by chance that we decided to hold a peace and safety prayer in this area. The loss of innocent lives due to taxi related violence has to stop. We need to bring dignity in this lucrative industry and allow it to be regulated and operated professionally. Conflicts and disagreements need to be resolved through bilateral discussions, not through a barrel of a gun. We will continue to work with SANTACO in bringing peace and stability throughout the province. We further urge all religious leaders and other community formations to unite with us in preaching safety messages to save lives,” he said. He said law enforcement operations and safety educational programmes will be intensified throughout the Easter holidays and beyond. He also called on road users to obey the rules and ensure that they travel with roadworthy vehicles. He also urged community members to report all criminal activities to the police. While he was in Matiwane, he attended an integrated law enforcement operation on the N11 where vehicles were stopped and checked for traffic violations and searched for illegal possessions. In 2017, Joe Maswanganyi, then Minister of Transport, said KwaZulu-Natal saw an increase of 31 road fatalities. In the previous year, KZN had 28 road fatalities and in 2017, had 59. “In total, the number of fatalities increased by 79 (51%) from 156 over the same period the previous year to 235 this year. However this year’s fatalities are still significantly lower than the 333 fatalities recorded in 2015,” Maswanganyi said. Arrive Alive, a road safety organisation gave these road safety tips for Easter 2018:   Daily News