Nqobizwe, 42, was shot dead at his home in Imfume Ward 105 of eThekwini Municipality, in the early hours of Saturday morning. He was responsible for election mobilisation in the district. “They kicked the door open; he was in bed with his wife, and the attackers instructed his wife to cover herself while they shot him. She was admitted to hospital, but the doctors say the child is fine. She is still in shock, but we are happy that she and the baby were not injured,” Dennis Mkhize said. He said the family was devastated. “We want to know why they killed my brother They separated him from his family in the most brutal manner. We are appealing to anyone with information to come forward, we want closure,” he said. He also appealed for help towards funeral costs. “My brother was not formally employed, he relied on temporary work. We need all the help we can get,” he added. This comes as the Moerane Commission of Inquiry probing political killings in the province wraps up its investigation. The commission, established by KZN Premier Willies Mchunu, has thus far heard that ANC infighting and readily available hitmen were contributing factors to assassinations in the province. Nqobizwe’s murder, the second political killing this year, comes after ANC activist Sfiso Mlambo, 34, was gunned down at a friend’s home in eSikhawini, Empangeni, in January. At least nine ANC officials were killed last year. The party in the province expressed shock and outrage at the slaying. “It’s sad that yet another dark cloud of brutal killings has engulfed our province. The ANC lost comrade Mkhize in a very critical open voter registration day, while tasked to co-ordinate the programme to encourage people to register and check their addresses,” said Sihle Zikalala ANC KZN provincial interim committee co-ordinator. Zikalala said the murder was an act of cowardice and an attempt to weaken the ANC. He said while escaping, the assassins fired shots at two other community members, who also died. SAPS spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed three murder investigations were ongoing. Jabu Mahlangu, SA National Civic Organisation (Sanco) national spokesperson, condemned the latest fatal shooting. Daily News