It will start at the Durban Exhibition Centre before proceeding - in silence - through the streets of the city to the City Hall. The well-established tradition of this ecumenical service has become not only the flagship of Diakonia but also a major event on the city’s calendar, attended by thousands of people who gather together at this most auspicious time for Christians to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus and his death at Calvary. Each year the service highlights a particular aspect of national suffering or injustice. This year the theme is “Do Not Fear, Stand Firm”. “We will be reflecting on what it means to stand firm in our faith. We need to stand firm, even if it means standing alone - standing in truth, in hope, in justice and in faith. “The world, and (at times) our country, may seem like it is in turmoil with rampant prejudice, corruption, crime and financial strife and while most of us feel we should rather look away and focus on ourselves, families and work stresses, we must ask ourselves if we are doing what God wants us to do in our land,” said Nomabelu Mvambo-Dandala, the executive director of the Diakonia Council of Churches. The sermon will be delivered by the Reverend Thulani Ndlazi  who is the Synod Secretary of the United Congregational Church of Southern Africa (UCCSA), a position he has held since 2013. Prior to moving to Johannesburg to take up this role, he was based in Durban as Moderator of the UCCSA for the KwaZulu-Natal region. He was the programme manager of the Church Land Programme based in Pietermaritzburg from 2004, in which he spearheaded and co-ordinated the first ecumenical 
Land Matters Project (focusing on land and human rights) in KwaZulu-Natal. He also co-
facilitated a research-based Bible Study production process that led to a formation of rural social movement called Rural Network. Meditative singing will start at 5.15am with the service starting at 6am. The congregation will proceed through the streets of Durban in silent public witness. The service will conclude at about 8.15am at the City Hall with the flowering of the Cross - as an act of commitment 
by all present to act for a just society and take up God’s 
call. Limited parking and street parking is available at the Durban Exhibition Centre with additional off-street parking around the City Hall. Transport back to the Durban Exhibition Centre, from the City Hall, will be arranged for the elderly and the infirm. Entry to the Good Friday service is free. A collection will being taken during the service to support the burgeoning costs of this event. All are welcome to participate in this significant, multi-lingual Christian Easter event. For more info, contact the Diakonia Council of Churches on 0313103500 or visit www.diakonia.org.za Daily News