Responding to questions from Business Report, RBIDZ chief executive Pumi Motshoahae said they would do this through national and international conferences, seminars and exhibitions platforms. “We are projecting more than R10bn in investments, with a potential of creating direly needed job opportunities. Other than information and communication technology, sectors targeted include wood and pulp manufacturing, resource beneficiation, agro-business processing and green economy projects with a high potential for job creation,” said Motsoahae. RBIDZ said it had already signed investments of more than R10bn, representing different key sectors of the country’s economy, creating thousands of direct and indirect job opportunities during their infrastructure development stages. Motsoahae said they remained optimistic of the many opportunities yet to emerge when investors commenced operation in the estates. He said that RB Energy Services, an affiliate of the Lovemore Brothers group, had commenced construction of its logistics facility, which includes a warehouse, gantry crane set-up and offices. RB Energy Services, a heavy logistics company, is said to be investing no less than R20 million. The completion of construction is predicted in the second quarter of the 2018/19 financial year, resulting in full operation of the company, with more employment opportunities foreseen. RBIDZ welcomed the national government’s focus around incentives, as this would help attract more investors into the industrial development zone (IDZ). “There are a number of incentives that we offer to the investors in the IDZ. The incentives include the reduction in corporate income tax from 28% to 15%, VAT exemption for supplies procured in South Africa, duty-free imports for production-related raw material, including machinery and assets used in production, and location in a secured and customs controlled area. “The incentives will ensure that (special economic zones) like the RBIDZ are able to grow, generate revenue, create jobs, and attract foreign direct investment and international competitiveness,” the entity said. RBIDZ is also a site for the R35m Techno-Park earmarked to stimulate economic growth in the district through science, research and technological innovations. RBIDZ ’s Techno-Park is the second of four science and technology innovation centres to be rolled out in KwaZulu-Natal after the provincial treasury launched the first techno hub in Port Shepstone last year. University of Zululand economic expert Irrshad Kaseeram said it was key for RBIDZ to reach out with its plans. “Once they start reaching out with these programmes, I am sure it will help the local economy and boost small to medium-sized black businesses - a number of which are linked to the mining industry. “Publicly we need to see these endeavours in consultative forums and, hopefully going forward they would now start reaching out to the communities and business communities to which this matters most,” Kaseeram said. Daily News