Durban - A man was sentenced to life imprisonment by the Esikhaleni Regional Court in northern KZN for raping his 14-year-old stepdaughter. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, police spokesperson said the 45-year-old man raped his stepdaughter in the absence of her mother in December 2015. “The victim was staying with her mother and stepfather when the accused chased the mother after a quarrel. The accused asked the victim to bring him a cup of tea to his bedroom. That is when he grabbed her and at knifepoint, he repeatedly raped her. The victim managed to run to her grandparents’ house and attempted to commit suicide. She was taken to hospital for medical attention and told the nurse what transpired,” said Mbhele. She said afterwards a case of rape, the man was arrested and made several court appearances until his sentencing. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, said: “It is heartbreaking to learn that a person who should have played a role of being a father to the child but is the one who abused the victim. This sentence will also serve as warning to other culprits who think they will get away after committing crime. We are also appealing to all the victims of crime to make sure they report all forms of abuse to the police so that all those involved will be brought to book.” In another incident, a 28-year-old man was convicted and sentenced to 16 years imprisonment for rape. “In July 2015, the 14-year-old victim left her homestead to Mkhunyane (north of KZN) area with her 12-year-old sister, they were then approached by the deceased, Sabelo Shandu. He invited the victim to his homestead where they found him sitting with his friend, Senzo Xulu. The victim’s sister asked to use the ladies room, while she was gone Senzo forced the victim to undress herself and raped her. After Xulu left the room, Shandu entered the room and found the victim naked, he also raped her and then instructed her to leave,” she said. She said both men were arrested and charged for rape but during the trial, Shandu was stabbed to death by his former girlfriend. Daily News