Durban - KZN sporting fanatics are in for a treat this weekend as the SA men’s hockey team are due to descend upon Riverside Sports in Durban North for the first official bootcamp ahead of the Commonwealth Games in April 2018. From 2 - 4 March, the team will be seen doing a combination of fitness, skills and other important training drills at Riverside Sports who are sponsoring the team’s turf time at their world-class facility. According to SA Men’s team hockey coach, Mark Hopkins, this is an exciting time for the team who are currently ranked 15th in the world but have high hopes of breaking into the top 10 world rankings. The Commonwealth Games is a key tournament for the team which will set them up for the 2018 FIH Hockey World Cup in India later this year. “I am looking forward to working with an outstandingly talented group of players this weekend at our first official bootcamp, which I believe will create the right environment for the players to be as successful as they can be. I believe the squad is gaining great momentum after winning the Africa Cup last October and we as a team have our sights set firmly on striving to not only be better players, but more importantly, role models for the young players in South Africa,” Hopkins said. Brendan McNamara, local hockey club’s chairperson said it the weekend's preparations were exciting for members of the hockey club and members of the hockey-loving public. "What is taking place at Riverside Sports this weekend is nothing short of pure hockey enjoyment and we look forward to seeing lots of faces down at the turf over the weekend. The sad reality is that there is very little financial aid and support for the SA Hockey Men’s team so any support they receive means the world," he said. Members of the public will be able to meet and greet the team between 11am - 12pm. There will be an autograph session for youngsters. Plus there will be music, good food and even a drinks session for the public to share a cold one with the SA men’s team on Saturday at the club between 6:30pm and 8pm!” 