Durban - The sporting fraternity, South Africans and people from across the world can breathe a sigh of relief because triathlete Mhlengi Gwala is doing well after surgery. Sandile Shange, Gwala’s best friend, triathlete and lifeguard said the operation was a success. “The operation was a success and the doctors are happy,” said Shange. “He can move his toes.” He said blood is flowing freely through his body but doctors did say it will take time for the muscle to heal. “It’s going to be a very long healing process but we are happy by the way everything went,” he said. After JP Valverde shared Gwala’s story on fundraising website www.backabuddy.co.za “to raise funds to support him with all his medical expenses, transportation, bike replacement and rehabilitation costs”, by 4pm, more than R600 000 had been raised. Shange said they are very happy and excited about the amount raised. “Thank you to everyone for the support, we are overwhelmed,” he said. He said they are also grateful for the support they have received from around the world and he did not think that so many people cared this much. In a media statement issued by Parliament, the Portfolio Committee on Sport and Recreation said they condemned the attack on Gwala. “This criminal attack undermines the country’s objective of building a united South Africa and the committee calls on the South African Police Service to bring to justice those found guilty of the attack,” the statement said. The committee also wished Gwala a speedy recovery and are hopeful that he will soon be able to participate in his sporting activities again and fly the South African flag high. Gwala was attacked while cycling along Francois Road, near the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) when he was confronted by the men. According to a source, Gwala offered the men his cellphone and other belongings that he had with him but the men declined. They managed to saw through half of his one leg and found that their weapon was blunt. They also tried to saw off his second leg. Eventually the men fled. Gwala was rushed to the Albert Luthuli Hospital in a serious condition before being transferred to St Augustine’s Hospital where he underwent surgery on Wednesday. Daily News