The tourists lost the third Test by a massive 322 runs, to go 2-1 down in the series against South Africa, but they lost significantly more beyond the result. They ended the match with skipper Steve Smith and his deputy David Warner stepping down from their responsibilities, and Smith also banned for the fourth Test, which starts on Friday. Cameron Bancroft was spared from a ban, but he received three demerit points on his record, as well having 75% of his match fee docked. Back in Australia, former players and influential public figures called on Cricket Australia to be even tougher on the shamed team. The outcry went as high as the highest office, with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull calling for decisive action from the game’s governing body. “It’s their responsibility to deal with it, but I have to say for the whole nation who holds those who wear the baggy green up on a pedestal - about as high as you can get in Australia, higher than any politician, that’s for sure - this is a shocking disappointment and it’s wrong and I look forward to Cricket Australia taking decisive action soon.” Turnbull’s sentiments were echoed by several former captains, while other prominent names in the game also expressed their dismay on social media. Former England captain Michael Vaughan called on the International Cricket Council (ICC) to update their sanctions on such acts, and also questioned how the rest of Australia’s “leadership group” had got away without being charged. Renowned commentator and former West Indian fast bowler Michael Holding insisted that the ICC had to rid itself of double standards when it came to handing out punishments. Former Proteas captain Graeme Smith criticised the ICC for missing an opportunity to make an example out of people who had admitted to cheating. “I felt the ICC had an opportunity and in my mind they 
haven’t dealt with it effectively,” Smith said on cricket.com.au Cricket Australia is expected to take the tougher stance on an incident that has brought 
shame to a proud Test nation. They immediately flew out a delegation to investigate the incident, and it is anticipated that more internal punishments will be handed out. The fourth and final Test between South Africa and Australia starts on Friday in Johannesburg. Daily News