“At least it shows that we are doing something about it. It is a pretty positive thing,” said Lewis. He said the delay in reinstating the charges was understandable as the former president had prevented law enforcement authorities from taking action against him. “We had to wait until he left power because he basically commanded the decisions of the NPA and the Hawks. “Now that he no longer has the power that he had, I suppose they feel sufficiently liberated to do what they should have done a long time ago,” he said. Zuma is expected to appear at the Durban High Court on Friday, April 6, for the start of what is expected to be a marathon trial. He was served with a summons on Monday. Zuma’s ­supporters said they would arrive outside court in their numbers. On Tuesday, business forums including the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA), Delangokubona Business Forum and the National Taxi Alliance issued a statement saying they were spearheading a national campaign to bolster support for Zuma. Speaking on behalf of the business forums under the banner “100% behind Zuma”, Nkosentsha Shezi, the secretary-general of Nafupa SA, said the aim was to create a platform for every citizen to show ­support for the former statesman. “There are many people who feel let down by the manner in which Zuma is being treated, having championed total emancipation for blacks through land expropriation without compensation, free tertiary education for working-class children and radical economic transformation,” Shezi said. He said more business forums were heeding their call to stand behind Zuma, and that they were receiving messages from as far as Limpopo, Gauteng and the Western Cape as people were eager to support him. Shezi said the forum would provide logistical support, including transportation, food and sound systems. “Zuma is a national figure. People are saying we are 100% behind JZ, and we shall be there in our numbers to support him. “We may see thousands of people descending on Durban. “We are going to be visible in the streets of Durban, and in court, to say thank you to Msholozi, and that in spite of everything that has happened, we are behind you,” he said. Daily News