This came as the DA released a statement that said a go-slow by mortuary staff has resulted in them performing only two post-mortems a day. Dr Imraan Keeka, the DA’s spokesperson on Health, described it as a shocking state of affairs. Keeka said they had made a call to Premier Willies 
Mchunu to force Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo to act in the matter. The request was made during a sitting at the KZN legislature last week, he said. The province was headed for disaster if inaction on the matter continued, Keeka said. The party had been informed on Monday that there were 30 post-mortems waiting to be done at the Magwaza Maphalala (Gale Street) mortuary, and 10 in Pinetown, he 
said. “Our source at Fort Napier (mortuary in Pietermaritzburg)  has today confirmed that the number of bodies remains at 20 after five were collected by the SAPS over the weekend and transferred to another facility in Durban,” he said. The workers, however, had agreed to continue collecting bodies, Keeka said. This was still a precarious situation because demands had not yet been addressed, he added. The strike is one of the many problems that have affected the KZN Health Department. The Daily News reported last month that a wildcat strike resulted in some people not being able to bury their loved ones. In December, the Daily News reported that bodies were piling up at the Fort Napier mortuary after staff complained about working conditions. Ayanda Zulu, regional secretary of the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union, said the go-slow ended on Tuesday. “We discovered the Department of Health was not paying in a correct salary scaling,” he said. Zulu said the union conducted research and found that on average each employee was owed about R150 000. The union negotiated with the department, resulting in an agreement which said that KZN Health would “slowly” pay the money owed to its employees, he said. But this never happened, Zulu said. The lack of action from the department resulted in the go-slow. Ncumisa Mafunda, spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health, said it was concerned about the situation at various mortuaries. “To mitigate the impact of the action by workers on the public, the department has activated a contingency plan whereby mortal remains are transported between facilities and processed accordingly,” she said. “The department wishes to convey its most sincere apologies to all families that have been affected by this situation, and assures the public that it is doing its level best to ensure that operations at the affected facilities can return to normal,” Mafunda said. Daily News