The union argued that parents without a tertiary qualification and “illiterate” parents should not be appointed as members of the SGB as they lacked the capacity to perform duties such as conducting  interviews to appoint principals, deputy principals and heads of departments. EUSA spokesperson Issac Scelo Bhengu expressed concern that it was becoming a “trend within communities to appoint incompetent people into SGB positions because of their popularity for making the biggest noise during community protests”. “Bearing in mind that schools are academic institutions, people without an academic qualification would not be capable of making these crucial appointments,” he said. Bhengu said the reality was that in some communities few people had academic qualifications, but the nurses and teachers who did should be encouraged to apply for SGB positions. Other teachers’ unions expressed disgust and embarrassment that a teachers’ union would make such a statement. The SGB elections season began earlier this month and more than five million people are expected to vote nationally. The EUSA, which was formed in 2008 and is based in Morningside, Durban, is expected to host its annual meeting at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) Steve Biko campus on Saturday, where Zwelinzima Vavi is expected to address the teachers. Vavi recently formed the South African Federation of Trade Unions. Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), said the EUSA’s proposal was “irresponsible”. “It undermines the integrity of parents dedicating their time and voluntarily working for the betterment of schools in their communities. It is difficult enough as it is to convince parents to attend the SGB elections and vote. Some schools struggle because it is hard to get parents to volunteer for SGB duties.” Moodley said academic qualification had nothing to do with the work of the SGB. Rather, the most important requirement was commitment, hard work and dedication, with the school’s best interests at heart. Moodley said the Schools Act had provisions for SGBs to co-opt assistance from people with skills in fields such as finance, labour and others, should a need arise. “This country has a history of education as a privilege for the few. We will not allow such proposals to continue to discriminate against people based on their level of education,” said Moodley. The National Teachers’ Union (Natu) dismissed the proposal as an “uninformed” one, seeking to undermine the parents in general. Natu deputy president Allen Thompson said there was a policy on SGBs which provided the guidelines on what to do in a case of a lack of skills. “They are speaking from an uninformed point of view of what the provisions are. The Natu encourages even the most illiterate person to participate in SGB structures to empower them and for a chance to get involved in the education of their children,” said Thompson. Dr Jaco Deacon, the deputy chief executive of the Federation of Governing Bodies of SA Schools, said education was not a requirement. “We believe that it does not take a tertiary qualification for one to realise what is in the interests of their children’s education. We are not about to eliminate the contribution of parents and members of the school community based on the level of their education.” Nomarashiya Caluza, the provincial secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu), said the only requirement needed in the elections was to have a child enrolled at the school. “The department has capacity-building processes in place and provides training to SGB members. Part of the training includes the appointment and promotion of teachers,” said Caluza. Provincial education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the department had not received the proposal. He said although schools were academic institutions, the reality was that not all people in communities were educated. Daily News