The 102-year-old temple has become an integral part of many lives. Habimun Singh, 81, who has attended the temple almost all his life, said to sell the temple would be an act of heresy. He said he only learnt last month that the temple trustees were considering selling it. The Mobeni Heights resident said the lack of consultation upset him the most. “You cannot do anything with the temple without the consent of the public.” The temple was very important to the community, he said, because it was a Sanatha Dharma temple which followed one of the main texts of Hinduism. Singh also said the temple was a public organisation and they had a right to say what happened to it. Singh said many of the  devotees had contributed to the temple's construction and development. Vishnu Maharajh, a priest at the temple, also bemoaned the lack of communication around the move. He said he felt insulted that he first heard about the sale in the media. The 52-year-old, who teaches Sanskrit at the temple, said he had been involved at the temple since he was 8 years old. His wife, Nirvashi, said the temple played a significant role in the community. “It is a monument. It is an inspiration to the community,” she said. The 43-year-old said there were people willing to help financially if it was required. Lokesh Ramnath Maharajh, president of the Luxmi Nayaran Trust, said it was considering moving the temple. He said deliberations were continuing, but the temple had not been sold. He said the reason they were considering this was because the number of devotees had dwindled over the past 10 years. He explained that the demographics of the area were changing. “A meeting of the trustees was held in October last year and the trustees requested the board to pursue the possible relocation of the temple. The board deliberated this issue at its meetings in November and December. It continues to engage on the issue as no final decision has been arrived at yet,” he said. Maharajh also dismissed claims trustees were considering selling the temple to a church. Exemptions “The Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple is a ‘public benefit organisation’ which is entitled to exemptions available to organisations carrying on charitable activities. The Sars Act requires that the public benefit organisation conducts its activities in a non-profit manner and with an altruistic or philanthropic intent. Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple is therefore a ‘public benefit organisation’ and not a ‘public organisation’,” he said. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of South African Hindu Maha Sabha, said it was aware of the situation. “This is not something new as many organisations face financial and security problems,” he said. “If the community is able to guarantee the money required to meet the monthly financial demands to maintain the temple, I am sure there will be a rethink. I understand there are members who are unhappy and have called a meeting on Saturday,” he said. The Hindu Maha Sabha would work with all parties to try to find a solution, he said. Daily News