Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has said they are on track with their basic service delivery roll out plan. This comes after the Democratic Alliance said the metro has not built 4 102 houses, of the 5 299 they said they would build. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality Head of Communications Unit said the construction of a housing unit happens in conjunction with complimentary infrastructure development and provision of services such as water, sanitation, roads and electricity in order to improve the quality of life of eThekwini residents. Mthethwa said the city’s Human Settlement Unit focuses on several areas, including the rectification of houses built before 1994, transferal of title deeds to home owners, facilitation of social and gap housing, ensuring access to land for housing and informal settlements roll out of incremental services. “The city’s housing delivery target is in line with those agreed upon by the city and province to deliver 4 688 housing units per annum. For the 2016/17 financial year, the Human Settlements Unit has built 5 003 housing units against a target of 5 000. We are on track with our basic service delivery roll out plan and are confident that the Infrastructure Grant dedicated to the rollout of basic services will be fully spent by the end of the current financial year (2017/18),” she said. “As per the Human Settlements Unit’s Service Delivery and Budget Implementation Plan (SDBIP), 1 690 housing units have been built for the first two quarters of the current financial year (2017/18) against a target of 4 688 units. We reiterate that the Human Settlements Unit will achieve its housing delivery target for the period ending June 2018,” she continued. She also said the Human Settlements Unit is working hard to address challenges in order to meet their housing delivery target. The challenges include the continuous work stoppages on the ground by various groupings who felt excluded from the economic mainstream directly affected the progress of contracts on the ground. She said the Human Settlements Unit has also been affected by the increased security risk to staff responsible for contract management, this prevented the officials from freely managing and administering the work on the ground, which results in delays with project completions. “The Unit has developed a turnaround plan to ensure that the planned targets are achieved and grant funding is utilised against set service delivery targets. This occurred after several interventions by the council, indicating great concerns with the performance,” she said. She said this included the appointment of a panel of implementation agencies which will speed up the procurement and that the process is being finalised. “EThekwini Municipality Council has also approved the adjustment budget, which will be used to fast-track priority projects. The Human Settlements Unit is confident that the set housing delivery target will be met by the end of June 2018,” she concluded. Daily News