Mncwango said the fight to amend the party’s constitution to include diversity as one of its values was winnable if members honestly acknowledged historical context. “It unfortunately seems like we are not pulling in the same direction, even for liberals. In South Africa you can’t say race is not relevant when we elect leadership. It’s impossible, naive if we act as if we all start on an equal footing,” Mncwango said. The race issue has taken centre stage before the party’s federal congress following a five-page letter written by MPs Michael Cardo and Gavin Davis. “If these reports are to be believed, the ‘progressives’ want race quotas applied to the party’s representatives in Parliament and other legislatures. The ‘progressives’ (who are almost always quoted anonymously) speak a sort of dialect of ANC-ese, in which terms like racial ‘transformation’ and demographic ‘representivity’ are parroted unselfconsciously,” they wrote. Cardo and Davis welcomed the addition of diversity as a value, but decried its loose definition. However, Mncwango said their call was misunderstood as they were not asking for diversity to supersede merit. “We are not calling for a quota system, we are saying DA members must understand that this model of liberalism that speaks of fair opportunity regardless of race does not work in the context of South Africa, where some were sidelined on the basis of their race,” he said. Responding to Cardo and Davis, KZN legislature member Hlanganani Gumbi argued that diversity was not on display in many parts of the DA , nor did the party have decision-making people of wide-ranging experience. “This not only becomes an affront to the many people who have been left out, but further makes it questionable to what extent we take diversity seriously,” Gumbi said. Mncwango said some who held positions felt threatened that if the DA adopted diversity as a value, it would come at their expense. “Some of the older generation of white colleagues were taught in school that blacks are inferior. We now live in a democratic society where we are all equal. We need to engage on this, not via e-mails, that is why we are taking it to congress,” Mncwango added. Last week, Mncwango lambasted the party in the city of eThekwini, where a recently elected structure of 11 leaders was without a single black 
person, and had only one woman. Daily News