Vusi Zweni, from the hostel dwellers’ association, Ubunye Bamahostela, confirmed the deaths, but said he did not know what the motives were. Zweni said he hoped police would get to the bottom of the matter quickly. “The hostel has numerous cameras, so I hope they will be able to capture the perpetrator soon,” he said. Last year, former police minister Fikile Mbalula opened a satellite police station in the area. The Daily News reported in December last year that about 100 people had been killed at the hostel. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, SAPS spokesperson, said the police were aware of only one death. She said a 27-year-old man, who used to live at the hostel, had gone to visit his father there on Thursday. He went to a tavern and was shot on Saturday night. Mbhele said police did not know how many assailants were involved. No arrests had been made yet, Mbhele said. Mary de Haas, of the KZN Violence Monitor, said she was told by sources that the man was shot through the window of the tavern. She said the death of the second man was only discovered on Sunday morning. He had been shot once in the head at close range. De Haas said there was a network of hit men who operated at the hostel, and if a person was arrested it did not mean that they were neutralised. It was important for police to vary their route and do 
walkabouts, and not just patrol from their vehicles, she said. De Haas said police were no longer using local officers, but were sourcing them from around the province and some from the Eastern Cape. “You got to have good crime intelligence, it all comes down to that,” De Haas said. This would help police get a sense of where the weapons used by criminals were located, she said. Another concern for De Haas was the approach of winter, when days would be shorter. This posed a danger, she said. Late People who would be most affected were those who returned from work late in the afternoon. Proper maintenance of hostel lights was important to ensure safety, De Haas said. Vanessa Burger, an independent human rights activist, said there had been 106 killings since March 2014, 83 of which were inside or near the hostel. She said the violence rose when there was a lull in police activity. Just like De Haas, Burger also encouraged more foot patrols by police. “It seems the killings over the last few months have become indiscriminate, there doesn’t seem to be a pattern as there was before. “So it looks like there are individuals who wish to keep the hostel destabilised and the community living in fear,” she said. Daily News