Durban - Amahle Bongiwe Maliwa, 28, the woman accused of being the mastermind behind the murders of two boys last November, allegedly to get back at one of the boy's father for ending their relationship, has been denied bail. Best friends Luyanda Msomi and Njabulo Mankayi, Grade 3 pupils at Clairwood Boys’ Primary School and both aged 10, were reported missing when they failed to return home from school last November. Maliwa and her friend, Liziwe Ngwayise, were arrested and charged with two counts of murder and two counts of kidnapping. They have both pleaded not guilty. Both had chosen to abandon their bail application due to fear for their lives at the hands of the angry members of their community. Maliwa who is the ex-girlfriend of Thandaza Mankayi, the father of Njabulo, later changed her mind and opted to apply for bail. It is alleged by Mankayi that Maliwa murdered his son to punish him for ending their relationship. Maliwa told the court through his a lawyer, Anele Mveku, that she needed bail to go and take care of her four minor children. She told the court that two of her children were taken by their paternal uncle while the other two were being kept at a place of safety. Angry members of the Clairwood community who packed the courtroom, expressed disappointment during court proceedings as Mveku argued that although she did not imply that a place of safety was not a right place for Maliwa's children, she submitted that a child was always best kept with their biological parents in this case in the care of Maliwa. "This case might take months and months to conclude. In the meantime she can be raising her children and earning an income where she worked since 2007 as a cleaner," said Mveku. The state had opposed bail and investigating officer's main concern was a possibility of Maliwa avoiding trial since her shack was demolished by angry members of the community after her arrest. But Mveku supported her argument for Maliwa to be granted bail saying that an alternative address had been submitted to the investigation officer and verified. Daily News