She was suspended from the more than R1 million-a-year position after allegations of misconduct. The absence of a permanent police commissioner has been destroying the police service, Police and Prisons Civil Rights' Union (Popcru) recently told the Daily News. Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said they had been vocal against having members serving in acting positions. “Generally, we have said these suspensions take a lot of resources away from the operational mandate of the police. This has been a challenge and it creates confusion among members because every acting person comes with their different ideas. We will look into the KZN matter to see how far they have gone in dealing with it,” Mamabolo said. Brigadier Vish Naidoo, the national police spokesperson, said the national police commissioner, General Khehla Sitole, had resolved the acting commissioners' issue and he would make a public pronouncement in due course. “The national commissioner has met Lieutenant-General Ngobeni but I can’t give a time frame as to when he will make the pronouncement,” Naidoo said. Ngobeni was suspended, on full pay, in May 2016 and received notice from then acting national police commissioner Lieutenant-General Khomotso Phahlane, that he was going to establish a board of inquiry. The board was to investigate allegations of misconduct against Ngobeni; her fitness to hold office; and her capacity to execute her official duties efficiently. The allegations were related to Ngobeni receiving “undue benefit” from uMhlanga businessman Thoshan Panday in the form of a surprise birthday party in 2010 for her husband, Brigadier Lucas Ngobeni, which was apparently paid for by Panday. It was also alleged that Ngobeni defeated the ends of justice by preventing an investigation against Panday. Further, Ngobeni was accused of failing and/or omitting to work to prevent acts of corruption perpetrated during the 2010 World Cup. Ngobeni had challenged her suspension in the Durban High Court. Judge Nkosinathi Chilli had set aside her suspension. He also set aside the decision to establish the board of inquiry saying it was “premature and unlawful” as Phahlane did not secure proper notice. The judge said there was no loss of confidence in Ngobeni by the national police minister or by the KZN MEC. Phahlane had appealed against this decision and last year was axed by then police minister Fikile Mbalula. Francois Beukman, chairperson of the national police portfolio committee, said Ngobeni’s matter was raised at the portfolio committee three weeks ago. “It’s critical that if there’s disciplinary action against an individual, then that must be finalised because we can’t have people sitting at home while drawing huge salaries from government. A provincial commissioner’s package is a hefty sum, of more than R1 million a year,” Beukman said. MP Zakhele Mbhele, the DA ‘s spokesperson for police, said the issue of long-standing acting appointments in the police service was one of the key indicators of mismanagement in the SAPS. “Whether we refer to the more than six-year suspension of former Crime Intelligence Divisional commander Richard Mdluli or the almost two-year suspension of the KZN provincial police commissioner, it demonstrates inadequate capacity and competence to run an efficient human resource management and discipline-enforcement system. This is the natural consequence of past cronyism which hollowed out the police service and compromised its administrative capacity,” Mbhele said. He said a key intervention to address this matter would be for the police minister to urgently institute a national policing board, as recommended in the National Development Plan (NDP). “This would be a multidisciplinary, independent body of experts who would set and review standards for, as well as play a key role in, senior appointments of the top brass, to address what the NDP itself calls the ‘the serial crisis of top leadership in the police’. “It would also assist with weeding out unsuitable senior managers and see to it that all selection and promotion processes happen on the basis of merit to ensure fit-for-purpose, qualified and competent police leadership,” he said. Nonkululeko Phokane, national Police Minister Bheki Cele’s spokesperson, said Cele would visit provinces next week, where he would address leadership issues. Ngobeni declined to comment. Daily News