The Himalayas and Rawalpindi roads community forum stood together to try to stop the installation of the mast in the residential area. Raven Naidoo, a forum member, said a neighbour who lived close to the spot where the mast was expected to be installed, saw workers digging at night. The  resident assumed it was the municipality cleaning up. But, to their surprise, a foundation for the mast was being built. Later last week, a construction company tried to erect a pole that looked to residents to be a cellphone mast, but the workers said it was a lamp-post. Residents said they asked the constructors to provide proof of authorisation for the installation because they had not been made aware of the plans. “We did not know what was going on. We just saw them digging and then another day they put up the pole, telling us it’s a street lamp,” Naidoo said. He claimed that the workers told him that they were just following orders to install the pole. They also allegedly said the “cellphone mast” would not be a danger to the health of residents. Jeeva Govender, whose house is across the street from the site, was very worried about the possibility of a cellphone mast being so close to her home. Attempts to get comment from the construction company were unsuccessful. Aubrey Snyman, the area's city councillor, said he was only made aware of the issue the day the alleged mast was being erected and he went to the site immediately. On arrival, he claimed that the construction workers had told him that it was a lamp-post and that it would not harm residents "because the radiation would go into the atmosphere". Snyman said if this was legitimate, people should have been informed before the installation phase. “Whoever is behind this should have at least had a meeting with the community to explain what the construction was and whether or not it would pose a risk to their health,” Snyman said. The eThekwini Municipality did not respond to requests for comment by the time of publication. Daily News