Durban
– The Parks, Cemeteries and Recreation Unit in eThekwini needs R27.5 million
for the cemeteries department, following the tabling of an addendum report on
the Durban storm last October. The
report was tabled during an Executive Committee (Exco) on Tuesday, said Tozi
Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality’s Head of Communications. She
said the report states that all departments within the Parks, Culture and
Recreation Unit submitted their information in the first report except
cemeteries. “The
funding required under capital budget for the Cemeteries Department is R19.8
million for the rehabilitation of internal roads and fencing with an additional
amount of R2.7 million required under the operational budget required for tree
felling,” Mthethwa said. She
said the Unit has adjusted its total amount to R27.5 million for all repairs
which includes infrastructural damage to one heritage site, three parks, four
sports facilities, three museums, 13 cemeteries, 20 libraries, 21 halls and 23
pools. “Damage
caused includes trees falling on infrastructure, flooding, roofs blowing away
and collapsed trees. Damage was also caused to internal roads and fencing,” she
said. She
said the approval of the report authorises the Parks, Cemeteries and Recreation
Unit to start planning rehabilitation projects for the Cemeteries Department. She
said the tabled report amended a previous report dated October 23, 2017 which
was submitted to the Office of the City Manager through the Disaster Management
and Emergency Control Unit, and approved by Exco in January. “At
the time of the report compilation, the Parks, Culture and Recreation Unit were
still quantifying the extent of damage within their Unit, which resulted in the
shortfall that cemeteries was not included in the report tabled at Exco. A
quantified submission was later submitted to Disaster Management in order to
amend the original report to take into consideration the new damages reported,”
she explained. The
Durban storm had destroyed infrastructure in the public and private sector and
claimed lives after rains and strong winds battered the city for hours. Daily News