Mchunu, during his State of the Province address in Pietermaritzburg, said KwaZulu-Natal had the second-largest housing backlog of more than 740 000 units. “Rapidly increasing urbanisation trends pose a serious challenge in the form of mushrooming of new informal settlements,” he said. He said the money had been allocated as follows: *  R3.8 billion Amaoti Greater Housing Project in eThekwini; *  R1.4bn Empangeni Integrated Residential Development Project in Umhlathuze; *  R457 million Hyde Park Project in iLembe; *  R1.8bn eThekwini Inner City Regeneration Project; *  R1.6bn Johnston Blaauwbosch Cavan Project in Newcastle; *  R6.3bn KwaMashu Bridge City Urban Hub; *  R2.9bn Umlazi Regeneration Project; and the *  R4.2bn Cornubia Phase 2 Project in eThekwini. Political analyst Bukani Mngoma said the promise of housing coincided with next year being an election year and politicians would make sure that whatever they said resonated with the minds of the electorate. Mngoma said money allocated for housing in Cornubia, KwaMashu and the Durban inner city was welcome, but cautioned the government to plan properly for implementation. “The problem with our government is not that resources are not available, but the lack of planning on how to distribute resources. “In some departments monies are returned to Treasury as they fail to use them, and once money is returned Treasury cuts the budget by the same amount that you returned because you have demonstrated that you cannot use it,” Mngoma said. He said he was not surprised that the budget was being used as an instrument to support political mandates, especially at a State of the Province address. “They are closer to the electorate. Politicians are aware that there is a bit of renewal and hope with the new ANC leadership, but they cannot sustain that hope if they do not support it with practical commitment of resources,” he added. King Goodwill Zwelithini and former president Jacob Zuma attended Wednesday’s event. Mchunu said the provincial government would interact with its national counterpart to find solutions to the Ingonyama Trust Act problem. During the opening of the provincial legislature on Tuesday, the king had announced that a team of legal experts would help him take the matter to court using funds to be raised by Zulu people. “We wish to make it clear that we will never support any recommendation aimed at undermining the role of our traditional leaders on land issues, including the Ingonyama Trust,” said Mchunu. He said the province was concerned by recommendations of the High Level Panel led by former president Kgalema Motlanthe that the Ingonyama Trust Board was unconstitutional. As the province still remains the highest affected by HIV/Aids, Mchunu said R419m, which had been donated by the Global Fund, would go to programmes earmarked to fight the pandemic. Mchunu said the government had made improvements in dealing with the crisis in the oncology units at provincial hospitals. “Swift action and the involvement of an interdepartmental team has stabilised the situation,” he said. DA leader Zwakele Mncwango, who will be sworn in as an MPL today, commended the allocation for the housing project. “Besides giving people shelter, it creates jobs. We welcome such an investment, especially in eThekwini where we always promote capital projects,” said Mncwango. Mchunu directed a large part of the speech to praising Zuma for initiatives that benefited KwaZulu-Natal. This did not impress DA MPL Francois Rodgers who described the speech as “as the state of Zuma address”. “I can’t believe that we should be praising the glory of a man who has actually destroyed our country, who has created economic havoc,” he said. Daily News