With a preventable death having happened in her family just two days earlier, she challenged the country’s obstetricians and gynaecologists to start a campaign which would spread to all health practitioners. Called #NotUnderMyWatch it would mean: “Not under my watch will there be a preventable or avoidable death. #Not under my watch will any patient be denied proper, adequate and reasonable health care because of insufficient access to financial resources,” she said. “If you remember one thing from what I said this evening, this is #NotUnderMyWatch.” Justice Theron, who became a judge in the highest court of the land last year, was delivering the keynote address at the opening of the 38th National Congress of the South African Society of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Conference at the Durban International Convention Centre. She told the gathering that while the right to health care was a fundamental right enshrined in the country’s constitution, “the reality is that adequate health care is unfortunately a question of income”. She recalled that Martin Luther King jr had said: “Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane.” The judge said her niece had died two days previously, after her appendix had burst. “She was turned away from a private hospital because she didn’t have adequate medical insurance. Her family took her to a public hospital. They left her there overnight. She passed away the following morning. “This is one of the many tragic examples where death could have been avoided with adequate medical intervention. “My plea is, let us work towards reducing tragic incidents like these. I urge each one of you to say #NotUnderMyWatch.” She told the Daily News that her niece was Claudine Marshall, 31, a Johannesburg-based artist, singer and musician who was making a name for herself in the industry. “She was a beautiful young lady,” she said. Judge Theron told how in May last year, hundreds of people marched to the Union Buildings in a bid to create awareness of violence against women and children. The march was part of the #NotInMyName campaign where men spoke out against gender-based violence. “Health-care workers and doctors like yourselves are placed in a unique position to take on and stop preventable deaths in South Africa,” she said, adding that it was not just deaths from gender-based violence that were preventable. In 2014, 57.3% of maternal deaths within the health-care system were considered potentially preventable. “It is striking that in respect of patient-orientated avoidable factors, 27% of deaths were due to a delay in accessing medical help while 25.6% were due to no or infrequent antenatal care. “One of the greatest factors contributing to preventable deaths was the result of lack of equitable access to health care.” Referring to the legalisation of sex work, she said that while the South African Law Reform Commission had recommended last year that sex work should continue to be criminalised, the ANC had announced at its conference in December its intention to fully decriminalise it. “Though the legalisation of sex work will likely improve the lives of individuals engaged in the profession, the impact on health will be largely influenced by how decriminalisation is implemented,” she said. Given the prevalence of HIV/Aids and sexually transmitted diseases more generally, “It will be important for the industry to become regulated, particularly in respect of condom use and the health of sex workers, rather than simply being decriminalised.” However, she pointed out that the decision at the ANC conference had offered no concrete details about the route that the government would pursue. Daily News