The meeting ended with the formation of the Association of Interested Persons, who are to engage with the temple’s trustees over its future. At more than 100 years old, it is one of the oldest in Durban. Board member Rishi Maharajh said the temple was not for sale until its trustees agreed, but there were reasons to consider selling. “The building has become more of a liability than anything else. We said we could not continue to use public funds and donations to maintain a liability that is being underutilised,” Maharaj said. Although functions were held at the hall, these did not generate sufficient income. Maharaj said the temple took in about R115 000 a month and its expenditure was R176 000. Bought With this in mind, trustees told the temple’s executive council to consider selling. He said they had talked to the eThekwini Municipality about the sale, because they had bought the temple from the city. A church and another  Hindu organisation were interested in buying it, he said. Maharajh said he wished for huge turnouts at temple meetings and functions. He urged people to get more involved in temple activities and said people should be trying to find a way to save it from closing. Habi Singh, a member of the temple, said it was time “we stopped this nonsense”. He said did not see any clause in the temple’s constitution that would allow it to be sold. Singh said the constitution emphasised that everything that could be done to save the temple, should be done, for the good of the temple. He said the temple could not be eradicated in any form in any process or procedure. Singh, from Mobeni Heights, said what concerned him was that the temple could be sold to outsiders who might not share the same values as those who attended the temple. Diksha Maharaj, a third-generation member of her family to attend the temple, said the problem was that people were discussing logistics - e-mails that were being sent about financial matters - and not trying to find a solution to the problem. “Instead of us all getting together to find a solution we are arguing over small issues,” she said. The 23-year-old, from Shallcross, said it was important to find ways to solve the problems facing the temple. “It is an emotional issue for me. It is my temple, our family temple, and it holds a special place in the heart of every 
community member,” Maharaj said. Daily News