This, however, has led to the city withdrawing the new employees, and the uMlazi hostel residents are now cleaning the hostel themselves. “It’s been about two weeks now since a group of women went to the superintendent’s office to hand over a list of grievances, including the employment of new people from other townships,” said a resident, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisals. “They know our situation here - employment is a problem, yet they overlook us while we also are in need of these jobs. After that day, those people have not been seen here. No one had bothered to tell us they were cutting the cleaning service, and people are doing it by themselves. The flats were invaded by maggots and green flies, then we decided to clean up.” Another resident agreed the municipality should have hired people living in the hostels. Vanessa Burger, an independent community activist, said hostel dwellers wanted the government to provide skills training so they could undertake their own servicing, repairs and maintenance within the hostels, instead of the municipality contracting small maintenance work out via “dodgy” tenders to private - and often politically connected - companies. Objected “The municipality recently employed new cleaning staff at Glebelands. It seems the hostel women were unaware of these posts or were for some reason unable to apply for them, and objected when workers were brought in from other areas such as KwaMashu and Amaoti,” Burger said. The hostel superintendent, Thabani Nyawose, said the residents prevented cleaners from doing their work, an allegation which was disputed by them. Nyawose said he was waiting for residents to indicate when they could start operating. He said there were no temporary measures in place in the absence of the cleaners. “Operations at Glebelands remain suspended till negotiations are completed between the mayor’s office and the leadership of the concerned residents,” he said. The mayor’s office was not aware of the problem, and neither was municipal head of communications Tozi Mthethwa, who referred the Daily News to the human settlement department. Councillor Mondli Mthembu, the chairperson of eThekwini’s human settlements and infrastructure committee, said he was aware of the problem. “The hostel residents claim that they were overlooked for job opportunities. They do not understand there is a central database from where the selection is made. I have requested people from the mayor’s office to go and explain this to the people and if there are any other concerns arising, then we will see if we can’t have a political intervention on those,” he said. Daily News