Durban - An investigation into the alleged misappropriation of funds in the roll out of sanitary pads programme by the KwaZulu-Natal Department of education will be established, the Department of Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana announced on Tuesday. The programme with 900 000 beneficiaries at schools in quintile 1 to 4 and special schools in the province had a budget of R109 million in the 2017/ 2018 financial year ending on April 1. The Daily News published concerns by principals of schools who said they had been oversupplied to such an extent that they had to store bundles of sanitary pads in libraries and storerooms. Some schools, mostly in Umbumbulu said they did not know what to do with the sanitary pads as they had too much. Dlungwana admitted on Tuesday that the department had been made aware of the concerns of the sanitary pads programme. "All concerns that we are picking up will be subjected to thorough investigation. The HOD has been been instructed to immediately appoint investigators," said Dlungwana. He said the department would continue to distribute sanitary pads to deserving and qualifying schools across the province. "The allegations of an oversupply needs to be tested. There are also allegations that well off schools were also receiving the supply where parents pay school fees. But go to schools in Umsinga and you will see the need of such an intervention," he said. He said the investigation will probe if there had been any irregular expenditure in the purchase of the sanitary pads which led to an over supply. "Various researches have shown that girls missed about four days of school. We have made it our responsibility to protect the girl child to provide services that affects learning in the classroom," he said. Vusumuzi Nzama said the tender for the sanitary pads was a national open tender for all provinces to utilise. "As the province we never advertised any tenders for this programme. I don't even know the company appointed by national department," he said. He said guided by the outcome of the department review process, it would be decided on whether the R109 million budget should be increased. Daily News