Mthunzi Gumede, spokesperson for mayor Zandile Gumede, said they were working with Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda to find a long-term solution. The buses have been grounded six times since August 2015 because of diesel shortages, leaving commuters in the lurch. On Wednesday, Tozi Mthethwa, the city’s head of communications, apologised to commuters for the inconvenience. She urged commuters to make alternative travel arrangements until further notice. Tansnat is owned by taxi boss Mandla Gcaba, nephew of former president Jacob Zuma. The city acquired Tansnat’s services in 2009 on a monthly lease of R15 000 for each bus. At the time, Tansnat also received a subsidy from the Department of Transport. In 2015, the municipality filed for an order of liquidation against Tansnat, claiming the company was unable to pay its debts. The relationship has been marred by a number of legal battles. Last year, eThekwini Municipality was ordered by the Durban High Court to pay Tansnat’s creditors R7.5 million. A Newlands East resident said she had been stranded for two days last week. “When I called the bus depot, I was told that there was no diesel,” she said. Gumede said they had contacted all relevant and affected people, including the provincial government. “We hope by the end of today (on Thursday) all buses will be operational. We thank our communities for being patient,” he said. According to a former Tansnat employee, there had been a change in the management in the past two years. He said many officials had taken their packages and parted ways with the company. He said it was never an issue of there being a shortage of diesel in the country. Gcaba said they had spoken to their drivers and operators and were addressing the matter. “There was an issue with collecting diesel at the plant last night (Wednesday) and the matter is being taken care of,” he said. Gcaba added that it had been business as usual with the service operating at 70% capacity. Daily News