Kwazi Mshengu, the ANCYL’s provincial chairperson, told the Daily News on Sunday that the league had started mobilising its own structures and those of its mother body to organise support for the former president. This past weekend, Mshengu went to various television news stations to announce the campaigns. “Right now we are engaging different structures in the organisation and different societies. “Yesterday (Saturday), we had a discussion with charismatic church leaders who have expressed willingness to come on board, and next week we are going to develop a clear programme on how we are going to mobilise,” he said. He added that the announcement of the court date would assist the mobilisation, saying church leaders believed in Zuma’s innocence until “the court decides otherwise”. “They (church leaders) are also concerned that this case has taken a long time to return to court. “They believe that the delay has violated some of 
Nxamalala (Zuma)’s rights,” said Mshengu. He said the ANCYL structures were also visiting community-based organisations. “Once we have a clear programme we will then ask them (ANC structures) to hold meetings to engage other influential people,” he said. He said mobilising support for Zuma was not meant to intimidate the justice system. It was reported on Sudnay that the Hawks were investigating new allegations that Zuma had accepted a bribe in excess of R1million from a company dealing with abalone to not remove Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Minister Senzeni Zokwana from his position. The National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA) is also preparing to support Zuma. The organisation earlier this month gave Zuma two awards as a champion of radical economic transformation and service delivery during a dinner in Durban. Nafupa SA president Muzi Hlengwa said although the organisation had not yet discussed how it was going to support Zuma, it was ready to do so. “Personally, if he goes to court, I will be there. “I will cancel any engagement to be in court. “I share the same view with our secretary general (Nkosentsha Shezi) with whom I discussed this, that if Zuma goes to court we should be there to support him,” he said. He added that there was also a black caucus, made up of 23 business forums formed on the basis of radical economic transformation, which would meet soon “and take the stance of supporting Jacob Zuma”. “During our meeting, the stance of supporting Zuma will be at the top of our agenda, and if there is a need to fund-raise we will discuss it,” he said. They would also collect funds to travel across the country promoting radical economic transformation. “If there is a need to pay for Msholozi’s (Zuma’s) legal bills, if he cannot afford them, the black caucus will do it. “But right now we have not taken a decision to fund-raise for Zuma’s charges, but if need be we will,” said Hlengwa. Daily News