Durban - eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer has committed the city's Metro Police to step up patrols in the Westville North area and do more visible policing in the area following a surge in crime in recent weeks. Last week, grandmother Rookaya Desai Dhooma was shot dead and her son-in-law Imraan Randeree, who is the managing director of Randeree's Jewellers, was shot three times when a gang entered their home. “I am shocked and angered by this tragedy. I am angered by the wanton disregard of life. The level of crime in Westville has once again reached an unacceptable level,” Peer said. “I met with the residents of Westville North a month ago. We decided with SAPS and Metro Police that we will maximise visibility of the police notwithstanding the shortage of resources. The satellite station will be placed one of these days,” she said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Closed circuit cameras would be up and running soon in the area Peer said. Reducing crime was not only the work of police but the community also had to play a role she added. Read: Durban businessman stable after being shot in house robbery Grandmother shot dead in Durban house robbery Parboo Sewpersad, Metro police spokesperson, said they would have 24 hour visible policing in the area which would feature their K-9 unit. Patrols would also feature marked and unmarked police vehicles he said. For security reasons, he could not divulge the number of police to be deployed in the area. “There will be mobile CCTV cameras placed in strategic areas,” he said. A  joint operation centre would be set up at the satellite police station in the area. They would be working with the SAPS, private security companies and other stakeholders in the area Sewpersad said. The only times there would be less police would be when they have to respond to incidents that were out of the area. “We are trying our best with the current resources that we have,” he said. A  resident who asked to be anonymous and lives a few metres away from where the shooting happened said they welcomed the stepped-up police presence. He was however sceptical about whether they would have a constant presence in the area. "The last time police presence was stepped up there had been a drop in crime but went back up after they left", he said. The man who has been living in the area for 33 years said overall the crime has gone down. He attributed this to community policing and general security awareness. He also noted that crime in Westville was not much higher than other suburbs in the Durban.  “It is tragic, and  I am shocked about what happened,” he said about last week's shooting. What saddened him was that things have come to a point where a person who is robbed is considered lucky if they have not been shot he said. Daily News