This has angered the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands farming community. It is also a slap in the face for Mercer’s quality of living report released on Tuesday, that Durban was the most liveable city in South Africa. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a group of vagrants from the Durban CBD had allegedly been dropped off at the Mid Illovo police precinct on March 16. “The motive is unknown at this stage. Mid Illovo police transported them back to Durban. The matter is the subject of an investigation following complaints from members of the public,” Zwane said. Fred Peter, of the Beaumont Eston Farmers’ Association, said a farmer who lived along the R603 was told by his neighbour that two metro police prisoner-transfer trucks and a white double-cab bakkie were parked at the end of his driveway. Peter said when the farmer arrived the police vehicles had left but he saw a group of vagrants standing in the rain. “Metro police came from Umbumbulu on to the R603. They dropped off the vagrants in different batches. The group we found had 51 in total. Eight more were found in a nearby sugar mill in Eston. Others were dropped off on the R624. Some left after hitch-hiking on the back of trucks,” Peter said. Peter, who was outraged by the incident, said the vagrants asked the farmer for help. “Some vagrants had no shoes or proper clothes. They said they were picked up at 8am and had not eaten since then. A farmer took the vagrants to the police station,” Peter said. “When eThekwini does a clean-up they load up their undesirables from the CBD and Albert Park, take them in the back of prisoner transport trucks and dump them in rural areas. They could have died from hypothermia. It is criminal. They are making it someone else’s problem,” Peter said. “The next day we could not find anyone else. We don’t know the calibre of these people. They could filter into the community and become a socio-economic problem. This creates a potential crime problem. “The police management were appalled and taken aback. We also had a meeting with the mayor on Tuesday, where we expressed our concerns. We asked that the mayor talk to the metro police and eThekwini management on a political level. “We are also lucky that we are vigilant and can see what goes in and out of the area. It is totally criminal,” Peter said. Thabisile Ndlela, Mkhambathini Municipal Manager,  said they were consulting the eThekwini Municipality on the matter. Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, Durban metro police spokesperson, said they were investigating the allegations. “The investigation will also reveal who instructed metro police officers to leave the vagrants in Eston,” he said. Daily News