That is what some local residents thought after a recent spike in traffic and after years of complaining to the authorities about big, unwelcome trucks on the winding Kloof Falls/Bridle Road, near Kloof Gorge, which residents argued was only wide enough for two-way car traffic. “While there is a nine-ton restriction in place, the weight is not so much the issue as removal vans could be that weight; it is the width that’s the problem,” said one angry resident, who declined to be named, but who stressed that local people were “desperate” over the problem. “Drivers see the route as a through road from Hillcrest to Durban, or Durban to Pinetown, or Pinetown to Hillcrest. It’s a narrow road with housing on it and there is a double ‘S’ bend at the bottom, and once committed, drivers often get stuck and cannot turn their trucks around the corner at the first bend,” she said. “It is not built for this sort of heavy, wide traffic. It is not safe for residents and it is risky for the drivers, too, as they could lose it down the hill and end up in the gorge.” A recent accident highlighted residents’ safety concerns, prompting a renewed flurry of messages to each other as well as to city and provincial officials. A freight truck, travelling from Pinetown to Waterfall, struck a vehicle on the bend. The woman motorist drove on to the verge to avoid the truck, but there was nowhere else for her to go and her vehicle was struck. While there were no injuries, the metro police had to be called in and it took about two hours to extricate the car and get the truck on its way again. “People could not get through and the traffic had to be diverted,” the unnamed resident said. Craig Perry, who has been spearheading the campaign to get action for about three years, said residents had been “going in circles” between the city and the province’s Transport Department. The road falls under the authority of the eThekwini Municipality, and in a recent e-mail to residents and city officials, Wlodek Gorny, the chief engineer for transport engineering at the KZN Department of Transport, said that complaints about mobility and road safety being compromised were valid. In an e-mailed update to residents, Ashok Harridaw, the chief civil engineer with the municipality, revealed that the Transport Department had now started verification surveys to determine if heavy vehicles were re-routing through Kloof Falls/Bridle Road to avoid being prosecuted for using the M13 during the posted restricted periods. The use of Kloof Falls/Bridle Road was “clearly not a preferred alternative”, Harridaw wrote in his e-mail. Residents feel that restriction signs should go up in various areas, warning truck drivers to keep clear of the narrow road. Daily News