Durban - The investigating officer in the murder case of Bianca Parsons, the Bluff mother who was killed in an apparent case of mistaken identity maybe replaced after he suffered a heart attack while giving evidence in court. Although State Prosecutor Stacy Barnard told the court that warrant officer Erugubathy Naidoo was to be discharged from hospital on Thursday and might be fit to continue with the case next Wednesday, the Magistrate insisted that the state would have to find a replacement if Naidoo did not recover in time. Magistrates Jackie Jonck adjourned the matter to March 28, but insisted that further delays in the matter would not be allowed. Parsons, was shot dead at a petrol station on the Bluff earlier this month. Darryl Murrison ,33, and Christopher Houston, 26, both from Wentworth were arrested for the shooting and have been charged with murder. Murrisson has abandoned his bail application, while Houston's bail application was adjourned last week after Naidoo suffered a heart attack while testifying in the dock. Naidoo was seen to by paramedics before he was taken to hospital. Naidoo had told the court that the state had evidence that Parsons' shooting was a case of mistaken identity and that Houston and Murrisson were identified from CCTVa video footage driving in a white VW Polo into the petrol station. He told the court that Parson's red VW Polo vehicle had arrived first and parked while she waited for her husband in the car.
He alleged that Houston was seen taking a gun and tucked it in his pants and they both walked to the shop. One of them (Murrisson) bought a pie and a bottle of water and walked out of the shop. Outside Murrisson was seen firing two shots at Parsons who was in the red VW Polo.
He said it is alleged that the shooting was actually a hit intended on another woman  who was in another red car parked at the garage at the same time. According to Naidoo, the shooting relates to the shooting of Houston's relative who was killed outside a night club in Wentworth last year. Daily News