Durban - More than R500 000 has been raised to help triathlete  Mhlengi Gwala, after he was attacked by three men who tried to saw off his legs during the early hours of Tuesday morning. By 4pm on Thursday, the goal of raising more than R500 000 was reached, less than 48 hours after it was set. People from across the world have donated money in rands and US dollars after Gauteng businessman JP Valverde shared Gwala’s story on fundraising website www.backabuddy.co.za “to raise funds to support him with all his medical expenses, transportation, bike replacement and rehabilitation costs”. Read: Robbers attempt to saw off KZN triathlete's leg R400 000 raised for triathlete Mhlengi Gwala after horror attack Among those who have donated, some have opted to remain anonymous while others have shared their identities. Moreover, people have shared their messages of support along with their donations. Donations ranged from R20 to more than R5 000. Gwala was attacked while cycling along Francois Road, near the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) when he was confronted by the men. Gwala had apparently offered his attackers the men his cellphone and other belongings he had with him, but they did not want them. They managed to saw through half of his one leg and but found that their weapon was blunt. They also and tried to saw off his second leg, but the saw was too blunt. Eventually the men fled. Gwala was rushed taken to the  Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital in a serious condition before being moved to St Augustine’s Hospital, where he underwent surgery on Wednesday. Minister of Sport and Recreation Toko Xasa had condemned the attack, saying it was "inhumane to treat the budding athlete in that manner " and that it had caused pain not only to the athlete but it also threatened to jeopardise his international career. Thamie Mthembu, Department spokesperson Gwala a speedy recovery. Xasa urged police to leave "no stone unturned" in their investigations case.The minister also urged South Africans to be vigilant when exercising on roads, especially when they are alone. Daily News