“We will be calling on the voters to vote for the ANC, there is no doubt about it. For some of us our votes are not secret, and are very open. “I can vote even if you are looking at the ballot paper,” Zuma told journalists. During the registration drive, Zuma spent the better part of on Sunday pleading with prospective voters to go out and register. He and KwaZulu-Natal ANC co-ordinator Sihle Zikalala started the day by attending a two-hour church service at the KwaMashu Christian Centre (KCC), where Bishop Nicholas Mzimela called on about 1000  of his congregants to prepare themselves to “block the DA from taking over the country”. “No white party should rule this country,” he said. Zuma told congregants they should register even if they had not decided whether to vote, “because you might later decide that you want to vote for a certain party. If you don’t register today you might not be able to vote - even after having made your decision”, said Zuma. After the service Zuma brought nearby Bridge City Mall to a standstill as he went on walkabouts distributing ANC voter registration pamphlets. He later had lunch at a local restaurant and where he was served boiled chicken, tripe and steamed bread while listening to afro jazz music. He resumed his work by conducting a door-to-door campaign. He visited the home of 75-year-old Evaline Ndlela, who lives in a dilapidated four-room house that used to be a water station. She only uses two rooms, as the other two still have old water pipes installed, although they are no longer working. She told Zuma that her ailing husband, Lucas Ndlela, disappeared eight years ago after he had left to collect his medication for high blood pressure at a local clinic. “Even today we are still looking for him. We don’t know whether he is still alive. “We suspect he died on his way to or from the clinic. “But I will vote as I have been always voting,” she said. Zuma said when the time was right he would explain why it was important to vote for the ANC. He said he had no doubt that during next year’s general elections the ANC would emerge victorious in KZN. “The ANC is big, the ANC has the support of the country. I know no other party that is supported like the ANC. I know no other party that is in every corner of the country, except the ANC,” he said. Zuma said only those who made predictions about the ANC saw a weak ANC. Zuma said he came to conduct voter registration in his home province because he went to go to his voting station in Nkandla on Saturday to check if his name still appeared on the voters roll. He also visited Esikhaleni Shopping Centre in Richards Bay, and a local taxi rank. “So it is convenient I do this kind of activity here, because otherwise I will go to other provinces and won’t check mine. “It’s not because I am popular here, or less popular. The ANC is popular throughout the country,” he said. Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa descended on Tshwane in Gauteng, whose council the ANC lost control in the 2016 local elections. Ramaphosa warned in Centurion that the return of land to the majority of South Africans must not violate other people’s rights and the constitution. Addressing congregants and ANC supporters at the New Creation Covenant Church, he said when the party was talking about the return of land to the people, everything had to be done in an orderly way. “We have to do everything orderly in terms of our laws, in terms of our constitution, so that everybody’s rights are protected and advanced,” Ramaphosa said. The ANC recently backed the EFF’s parliamentary motion to amend the constitution to enable expropriation of land without compensation. Daily News