Amid much fanfare, Khoza, who quit as an ANC MP after death threats following her outspoken criticism of former president Jacob Zuma, formed her African Democratic Change (ADeC) in December last year. Later that month, Cyril Ramaphosa vanquished Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma at the ANC’s elective conference at Nasrec. Now prominent political figures like Mpho Ramakatsa, Lufuno Gogoro and Kagiso Monyadiwa have asked her to quit the party over the triumph of Ramaphosa at Nasrec. Ramakatsa left the ANC after taking it to court, leading to the dissolution of the Free State executive committee in 2012. He was axed from the EFF in 2015. Gogoro had been with the IFP, ANC, EFF and Black First, Land First (BLF) before he tried his luck with the ADeC, where he claimed to be its ­national co-ordinator. Monyadiwa, the ADeC convener in the North West, had been with the African Christian Democratic Party and the DA. Gogoro said that during a meeting held in Johannesburg last week, party members expressed unhappiness about Khoza, who they accused of having said she would return to the ANC if party president Ramaphosa corrected the wrongs created by Zuma. “The call for her to resign was a collective decision by members from all provinces, because since we formed ADeC, Makhosi has never met any structure. “During a media interview she said if Cyril could deal with corruption and Mabuza (ANC deputy president), she could go back to the ANC. That statement did not sit well with ADeC members.” Gorogoro alleged that Khoza had, during meetings, praised the ANC under Ramaphosa instead of talking about the ADeC. “Members, particularly from KZN, had been calling for her to resign,” he said. Gogoro charged that he and Ramakatsa, alongside Khoza, had formed the party. “We did not join Makhosi, and if she says we failed screening, she is joking.” Khoza said on her Facebook page the three have no political home within her organisation. “Mpho Ramakatsa, Lufuno Gogoro and Kagiso (Monyadiwa) were rejected admission as ADeC members. They dismally failed the moral and ethical leadership test. “They have no jurisdiction on ADeC. They are not members,” said Khoza. Screen members She said the trio had been rejected by the ADeC board appointed to screen people interested in becoming members. “We are warning members of the public to guard against political imposters. We call on them to desist completely from using the ADeC name and logo,” she said. The party was unapologetic in rejecting membership of those who have failed the moral test. “None can be a member of ADeC if they are corrupt, power mongers with an anti-feminist agenda. “The ADeC is not a playing ground for political bullies. “Only men and women who pass the high moral stamina test are allowed at ADeC,” Khoza said. Daily News