Durban- The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (POPCRU) believe that suicides in the South African Police Service could decline if the SAPS employee assistance programs (EAP) are improved. Richard Mamabolo, spokesperson for POPCRU made the statement after hearing about an officer who had allegedly shot himself at the weekend.  Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said the police officer from Mandeni was found with a gunshot wound to his body. "It is alleged that he shot himself. He was taken to hospital for treatment. The incident happened at Newark area outside Mandeni," Zwane said. Paul Herbst, the IPSS medical rescue spokesperson, said their paramedics received a call for help at 6.30am stating that an off-duty policeman had been shot in his home. "On arrival, the paramedics found that the patient had sustained two bullet entry wounds and one exit wound. He was in a critical condition and required advanced life support intervention before being airlifted by IPSS Medical Rescue’s Specialized Air Ambulance, operated by Black Eagle Aviation to the hospital for further care," Herbst said. Mamabolo said many police officials are faced with the challenge of post-traumatic stress disorder throughout the country. He said this is mainly due to their working conditions which they go through on a daily basis coupled with the many financial challenges and the responsibilities they are confronted with. Mamabolo said most young officers tend to get frustrated and unfortunately take their own lives. "We think the employee assistance programs EAPs within the saps should be improved to reach out to all officers regardless of whether they are based in rural or urban areas. They must be confidential an issue which most officers complain about. Through this, we believe the high levels of suicide will decline,"Mamabolo said. Dianne Kohler Barnard,  MP and DA shadow deputy minister of police, said she had repeatedly spoken to national police commissioners to introduce mandatory psychological debriefing for police officers. Kohler Barnard said she raised the issue of police suicides at the police portfolio committee last week.  She pointed out how frequently this was happening. She said had the officer from Mandeni seen a psychologist recently the terrible tragedy may well have been averted “The SAPS has a macho culture which frowns on any officer showing emotion in relation to the horrors they see on a daily basis.  It is bottled up, until the officer breaks, frequently ‘taking’ his or her whole family with them.  The answer surely must be for the SAPS to instruct its officers to go for regular debriefing, so that a trained psychologist is given the opportunity to spot the at-risk individuals.  No officer should be allowed to handle a firearm, or go out on duty without a clearance certificate,” Kohler Barnard said. Daily News 