This was according to Khayelihle Mbuthuma, one of seven men alleged to be responsible for the murders at the hostel and who was applying for bail on Monday in the Durban Regional Court. Since 2014, about 106 people have been killed in the ongoing conflict at the hostel. According to Mbuthuma’s affidavit, read out to the court by his lawyer, advocate Jimmy Howse, who represented four of the accused, the report by former Public Protector, Thuli Madonsela, provided a “balanced view” of what has been happening at Glebelands. The report titled “Stop the Carnage” blamed the municipality and SAPS for not doing enough to stop the violence. Mbuthuma said the violence had been going on for such a long time that it could not be blamed on any one person and said self-ruling block committees at the hostel played a large role in the violence that had engulfed the hostel. He claimed he was not part of these block committees and felt the charges against him of attempted murder, and murder were “spurious”. Mbuthuma said he was facing another charge of murder, in a separate matter, and was currently out on R3000 bail. He claimed that him being granted bail was a sign that he was not a danger to society. Mbuthuma’s co-accused, policeman Sergeant Bhekukwazi Mdweshu, also represented by Howse, said he was not a flight risk and that the charges against him, which include murder and attempted murder, were part of broad, sweeping charges against many people. He found it strange that he was arrested last year for incidents that allegedly took place between 2014 and 2016. “I seriously deny the charges against me,” he said. Mdweshu said he doubted the prosecution had substantial evidence against him and believed he would be acquitted. “There are no direct 
eyewitnesses that implicate me in most of these charges,” he said. Mdweshu, who worked at the Durban Central police station, said he had lived at the hostel between 1999 and 2015, but left after there was an attempt on his life. He was currently suspended from the police service without pay and believed that if he was granted bail he would be reinstated. He was previously charged with murder in 1996, but this was withdrawn, he said. The other accused are Ncomecile Matlala Ntshangase, Eugene Wonderboy Hlope, Mbuyiselwa Mahliphiza Mkhize, Vukani Mcobothi, and Mondli Talente Mthethwa. Mthethwa abandoned his bail application. The Daily News reported that two people were killed this month at the hostel. One of the victims was shot at close range. To stem the violence, Fikile Mbalula, former police minister opened a satellite police station in the area last year. Meanwhile, police this past weekend arrested another man for possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition, while conducting patrols in the area. It was later learnt that the 27-year-old man had been  implicated in murders and attempted murders at Glebelands. He was expected to appear in the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court soon. Daily News