David Armstrong and his wife Jane, who use the horses in the field of Equine Assisted Psychotherapy, were elated when they received a call from a farmer in Hammarsdale on Wednesday to say that he had spotted the horses on a nearby field. The horses, a mare and gelding named Riley and Vince, were on their premises near Stonehaven Castle when they went missing. Armstrong said that every morning and evening they got a meal to supplement their grazing, but on Wednesday morning when his daughter went to take them their “breakfast” she noticed they were missing “Vince and Riley were not just horses, they are so entrenched in the DNA of this family. The perimeter fence had been tampered with in a strategic location and the suspicion was that they had been taken. We spent an entire day searching, talking to people, following leads, guessing and trying to understand what and why, ” Armstrong said. He said his 9-year-old daughter was crying uncontrollably when she realised the horses were missing. The pure-bred Friesians are worth R40 000 to R60 000 each. However, Armstrong said the price was not an issue. “It’s about the value these horses have to this community and my family. They love people. They are massive, as only Friesians can be, but they have the gentlest, most caring trusting souls. There is a slim chance they may have wandered off, but that is highly unlikely and out of character,” he said. The horses, he said, are both naturally trained and use bit-less halters, are unshod and sleep out (no stable). The only riding they did was with the family. Gentle “When they joined our family, the breed was specifically chosen because of their calm demeanour and gentle nature. They quickly became more than just horses and have been part of our family ever since - all of my children have spent their formative years with Vince and Rylie,” he said. He said the horses had helped countless adults and children in equine therapy, including children from a  Botha’s Hill orphanage. The impact they have had on people was phenomenal and could not be quantified, he said. When the horses were found, strings and shoe laces tied together were found tied to them. Armstrong believes that they were walked a long distance through the night. The family was still investigating who had orchestrated their theft. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of stock theft was being investigated by the Hillcrest SAPS. Daily News