Durban- A former dog owner was convicted of animal cruelty at the Pinetown Magistrates Court earlier this week. In a statement, Brigitte Ferguson from the Kloof and Highway Society of Prevention of Cruelty Animals Association, said Jenny Ramish from Marianhill pleaded guilty to animal cruelty. Ramish withheld treatment from her 11 year-old Doberman Cross Dog, Donna, Ferguson said. Ferguson said that in 2015, Petros Simamane, an inspector from the organisation came across the dog and found that it was so weak that it could not even raise its head. “She was laying in the sun, without access to water, open wounds on her buttocks, lying in her own urine and covered in flies and maggots. Her eyes were almost closed shut with a thick, mucky discharge,” she said. When they enquired why Ramish had not taken Donna to a veterinarian, Ramish replied that she had heard that she would have to pay, Ferguson said. Simamane, told her that she had broken the Animal Protection Act, No 71 of 1962. On hearing this, the Kloof SPCA said Ramish decided to hand over Donna as an unwanted animal rather than pay for unwanted treatment she said. Dr Katherine McIver, the veterinarian who treated Donna had described her condition as emaciated she said. “Due to her advanced condition, Donna was sadly, humanely euthanased. Dr McIver said in her opinion that Donna was left to suffer without veterinary attention for a prolonged period of time. She also stated that early diagnosis of an underlying disease and treatment could have prevented this severe and unnecessary suffering,” “Ramish’s guilty plea resulted in being sentenced with a fine of R4 000 or 6 months imprisonment, half of which is suspended for 5 years. Upon request of the SPCA, Ramish was further declared unfit to be in possession of any animal for a period of three years,” she said. "The Kloof and Highway SPCA Management and Inspectorate are pleased that after almost three years,Donna has eventually received some justice," Ferguson said. Daily News