Buthelezi said the number of schools built by the democratic government pales in comparison with those he built with the assistance of the province’s Indian community. Addressing hundreds of his supporters during a Human Rights Day celebration in uMlazi, Buthelezi said members of the Indian community had made it possible for him to build schools for black people whose education needs had been neglected by the apartheid government, an act which he said was a serious violation of human rights. “I am very pleased that family members of the descendants of Indians are here because some of the schools that I built were done with the assistance of his holiness Swami Sivananda of the Divine Life Society,” he said. Buthelezi said even though Indians were also oppressed, they sacrificed the little they had to help his government to build schools. “Even when we talked about social cohesion, these things were underscored, although the Indian people were oppressed just like us,” he said. He said traditional leaders also made their contribution by collecting R1 from each member of their communities to build schools. Buthelezi said his commitment to education was evident after the 1976 Soweto massacre when the ANC was calling for young black people to prioritise the armed struggle rather than go to school. “I was a member of the ANC but I was opposed to that and, instead, I said education for liberation,” he said. Buthelezi expressed concern that despite his government single-handedly building homes in uMlazi to provide shelter for black people, local residents were no longer attending his rallies in huge numbers. He said he built homes in uMlazi with a tiny budget allocated to him by the apartheid government, which was punishment for rejecting the idea of Bantustans. “I built houses and schools in uMlazi before you young people were born. Even though many of you have forgotten, the truth will never change,” he said. He said the ANC had failed to use trillions of rand of the government’s budget to deliver services. “The budget is not used accordingly because our government leaders are rotten and smell of corruption. “Even our former president Zuma is suspected of corruption. The money is there, but they put it here (pointing to his mouth),” said Buthelezi. The rally was also part of celebrating 43 years since Buthelezi founded the IFP in 1973. After the event Buthelezi visited a few houses as part of campaigning for next year’s general elections. “The IFP is the champion of democracy and for fighting for human rights for all South Africans. The IFP is the party you can trust. “We must never forget that during negotiations (Codesa) the Bill of Rights was the 
IFP’s major contribution,” he said. Buthelezi said in order for the IFP to be able to reorganise its branches, it should recruit as many people as possible to join. Young people should be charged less for membership, and people who are “too poor” should be given membership cards free of charge. He said only when there were legitimate branches could the IFP hold its conferences to choose its new leaders. Daily News