Warrant Officer Arnesh “Jakes” Juggan, 56, a Dundee policeman, his wife, Molly, 54, and their friend, Ashoak Rajoo, 53, were reported missing since Friday night. Police are searching the area where the last cellphone signal was detected. The car is presumed to have been washed away while they were trying to cross a low bridge over the Buffalo River between Dundee and Vryheid. They were last seen travelling in a police bakkie leaving Dundee, said SAPS Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane. The bakkie had police insignia and markings on it. A search party had been mobilised by midday on Saturday after their son, Ramil Juggan, reported they had not returned home. “When I came home late on Friday they were not home. My parents would visit Rajoo regularly, so I thought they were still at his home. When I got up the next morning they still had not come back. I phoned them repeatedly, but there was no answer. My sister, brother and I then contacted the police station and they tracked their cellphones,” Ramil said. After a missing person’s report was completed at the Dundee police station, police traced the last cellphone signal from his parent’s phone to Landman’s Drift, in the Malonjeni area. He said the search team presumed that his father might have tried to cross the low bridge. The river had burst its banks and the water had flowed over the bridge. Susanne Vermaak, who replied to the missing person report on the South African Police Facebook page, said the police knew exactly where they went missing, as confirmed by their cellphone signals. Vermaak wrote that there was a treacherous low-water bridge just below her house at the confluence of the Buffalo River and a stream. Divers were searching the area. A private plane also searched along the Buffalo River, but did not find anything. “We drove around the entire Saturday searching for them near the last location pinged. The location pings had no time attached to them. My father has 36 years of service in the SAPS. He is a dedicated police officer who is always on standby in the stock theft unit,” Ramil said. On Sunday, Ramil waited near the river banks while police divers searched for the vehicle. He said he could only pray for his parents’ and their friend’s safe return home. Daily News