King Goodwill Zwelithini, who has been protecting the land, expressed his sadness, at the opening of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature on Tuesday,  at what he believed were attempts by the government to take the land away from the Zulu people. He appealed to any “legitimate” Zulu to donate R5 towards the legal battle he planned to launch if the decision to repeal the act was passed. Durbanites were asked if they would be supporting the king by donating R5 to his appeal, and these were their responses: NOMASWAZI KUBEKA, 25, from Newcastle, said: ‘Even if the king was asking for R50, we would donate. The land is ours. Why are they trying to take away our land? It belongs to the people.’ SBONELO SITHOLE, 40, from Umbumbulu, said: ‘I would gladly donate the R5 because I live on the land belonging to the Ingonyama Trust. I have even built a house on that land. They can’t just take the land away from our kings, because we will lose our kings and our houses.’ Sane Gwama, 26, from the Midlands, said: ‘We will be donating our R5. We have to donate it, and if they (Parliament) want a war, we will give it to them.’ Bongumusa Sithole, 25, from Umkhanyakude, said: ‘We hear the king, but we have had this land for years and have not seen any improvement. Yes, the Trust allows us to get land easily and cheaply, but we need funding to maintain and run this land. We lack the skills to maintain the land when we have it. Ingonyama Trust is a positive thing, but how does the land actually help us?’ Siyabonga Mzulwini, 27, from Umzimkhulu, said: ‘I am not a tribalist, but I will not donate this R5. This thing has been thought out and the land will be taken either way. I feel like the decision has already been made. Fighting the government is not easy. Once they have taken a decision, it can’t be changed, and they have decided that Ingonyama Trust must close, so it will be.’ Phindile Mpangase, 34, from Ntuzuma, said: ‘People must donate the R5. The land must remain in the king’s possession. What is the government going to do with the land anyway?’ Daily News