During a hearing in Durban on Thursday, the commission said it was prepared to fight the matter in court. Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xalavu, the CRL’s chairperson grilled Durban mayor Zandile Gumede, city manager Sipho Nzuza and other city officials on the policy. She said they had been inundated with complaints from residents about graves being recycled without relatives being consulted. In a case they are dealing with, at least two bodies from two families had been buried in the same grave in a site belonging to a third family. This was done without consulting the family who owned the plot. When asked how residents knew of the city’s grave-recycling programme and the conditions surrounding the matter, Parks and Cemeteries manager Slindile Ndlovu said information was disseminated via newspaper articles and radio programmes. Mkhwanazi-Xalavu said the policy had been “built on the backs of poor people in the city”. For months, the city has been experiencing a dearth of burial space and has been encouraging families to opt for cremations. However, the commission raised concerns about the appearance and overall safety of two of the city’s crematoria. It said the crematorium in Chatsworth was dirty, while the Mobeni Heights crematorium had dysfunctional equipment. She also honed in on the city’s selection process when it came to which graves could be recycled. Residents have been renting burial plots from the municipality for R950 for a 10-year period. When the decade lapses, the onus is on the residents to check or update their information with the city and pay for the next 10 years. The city implied that people who were unable to pay the R950 were told their graves would be recycled. According to Mkhwanazi-
Xalavu, this was unfair on the poor. She said the city opted to re-use graves that did not have tombstones on them because it did not want to reimburse families for tombstones that would have been damaged in the process of recycling. She said if families were able to pay the R950 and had tombstones, then the city would leave their grave alone. “The policy on graves is based on people’s poverty. They are too poor to pay. “You say you advertise this policy through newspapers and radio; what about those who do not have access to those means? We are uncomfortable with the policy and it is unconstitutional,” Mkhwanazi-Xalavu said. Ndlovu said the city had identified three possible sites that could be used as cemeteries. She said the necessary feasibility studies were still being conducted. Gumede noted the issues raised by the commission. She said the team present at the hearing would review their policies. The hearing will resume next month. Daily News