Dube Tradeport chief executive Hamish Erskine said last week that this project was their priority for 2018/19. “This is the next major industrial expansion in the master-
plan, and will bring an additional 50hectares of new, serviced land on stream in the Special Economic Zone. "This new zone would target in excess of R10bn of private sector investment over the next five years,” said Erskine. The Dube TradePort was designated the status of a special economic zone (SEZ) in December 2016, and has since secured a total of R1.5bn in private sector investment. “In addition to the infrastructural projects such as the Hlawe River sewer pipeline and bulk works on Dube TradeZone 1B, Dube TradePort delivered the successful construction of a warehouse for Gift of the Givers and a maintenance facility. “These projects have contributed to the organisation meeting its job creation targets during their construction. This includes the 
construction of a double basement on Block D within Dube City, and a number of other smaller projects within Dube AgriZone. Dube TradePort SEZ also achieved its target to empower SMMEs, by ensuring that 40% of its total infrastructure spend was paid to SMMEs.” Erskine said the announcement by former finance minister Malusi Gigaba that a number of incentives would be made available to SEZs like the Dube TradePort to ensure their growth, revenue generation, job creation, the attraction of foreign direct investment and international competitiveness, would give them an advantage in the global arena. Dube TradePort will also be ­facilitating the development of the first phase of an automotive supplier park. The project forms part of a long-term plan to create an integrated supply chain for the automotive sector in KwaZulu-Natal consisting of over 1100ha of land in Durban’s south industrial basin. The project would be run collaboratively between the eThekwini Municipality, the provincial government and the private sector, as well as with input from other local stakeholders. Daily News