On Tuesday, the Daily News reported that the Basic Education Department was seeking to lower the minimum mark required to progress in Grades 7, 8 and 9. The department has proposed the home language threshold be reduced to 40%. Pupils would be passed if they received 40% in their mother tongue and 30% in three other subjects. The public was given 21 days to comment on the proposals. One of those opposed to the proposal is Professor Labby Ramrathan, director of the School of Education Studies at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. He believes it would further damage the South African education system if the proposal was adopted. “By lowering the pass rate, there is a lower expectation for pupils to progress. Now pupils will simply have to be street smart to pass. They will not really be learning any content.” Ramrathan said the country was already sitting with a fractured teaching and learning unit as well as failing infrastructure. “We should be paying attention to enhancing the environment of teaching and learning. We need to rethink homework. Classes are overcrowded and parents are expected to help children with homework. Lowering the pass mark will not solve the problem. We need to lower the number of pupils in a class,” Ramrathan said. Vee Gani, South Durban branch chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Parents Association, said the moment the government lowers the pass mark, it compromises the entire testing methodology. “It is a quick-fix solution to bolster numbers. We need to look at why pupils are not doing well in their home language. We need to find solutions so we are able to get pupils to pass. If pupils are not passing, it means they are not grasping the subject matter. “This is a worry. When we start lowering the pass mark, it means we are accepting mediocrity. We need to strategise solutions on how to get pupils to pass and understand content,” Gani said. “Maybe we need to look at the curriculum and perhaps send teachers for training. We could also look at a different method of teaching. Let us look at those factors instead of lowering the pass mark. We need to know where to draw the line. At 50%, we are already saying either pupils know it or they don’t. In essence, this means the pupil does not know 60% of their work content,” he said. Gani said lowering the pass mark would not assist pupils at tertiary level. Sadtu had said this week it was worried by a pattern of lowering requirements in the public school system and said it would also hurt public school matriculants. Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers’ Association, said they were against lowering the pass mark. She said there needed to be other ways of helping pupils and lowering requirements was not the way. “One of the solutions would be to intensify reading programmes at schools. We are in talks with the department to understand this matter further,” she said. A Grade 7 teacher, who spoke to the Daily News on condition of anonymity, said he was not in favour of the national department’s proposal. “The standard of English is already low right now. Pupils cannot do basic things like reading and writing at Grade7 level. “If we lower the mark, then what happens when they go to Grade 12 or university? “The more we lower the standard, the higher the unemployment rate will be. In the end it is the pupil who suffers. It does not make much sense,” he said. The teacher said he was of the opinion that the pupil must benefit. “If it means raising the standard, then so be it. We managed in school when our standards were high.” Daily News