eThekwini officials have said the mere mention of the group strikes fear in them. This follows the interruption of a disciplinary hearing of Zandile Sithole, the suspended deputy head of supply chain management, by the group on Friday. The hearing was held at the municipal legal services offices at the Embassy Building in Anton Lembede Street. City manager Sipho Nzuza and Sbu Shezi, acting head of legal services, said the incident was not good for their team, and that the matter would be reported to the relevant authorities. In addition, disciplinary hearings would be moved to venues with maximum security. A municipal insider said the Delangokubona group was interfering in supply chain management affairs, and had interrupted Sithole’s hearing as part of this agenda. “This is a very sensitive issue and this group has shown that they are above the law. Why was there no security to stop them from accessing a venue where a private process was under way? Why has the mayor not condemned this group’s behaviour?" asked the insider, speaking anonymously for fear of reprisals. "This is worrying because these people have been terrorising construction sites around the city and nothing has happened to them. If the mayor is an innocent party in all this, then she must make a public call for this gang to be arrested,” said the insider. Advocate Joseph Nxusani, SC, who was chairing Sithole’s hearing, said he was cornered by the Delangokubona members, demanding to know who he was and who he worked for. Nxusani  told the Daily News on Wednesday that he had feared for his life during the confrontation. “About 20 of these men in the boardroom acted so violently. They jumped on the table howling abuse and profanity at me. I tried to remain calm and reason with them, but that did not help. That’s when I became quite terrified,” he said. Nxusani said the group’s behaviour suggested that Sithole was a champion of transformation, and that whatever action was taken against her was an attack against Delangokubona. In a sound clip of the incident, the men could be heard saying mayor Zandile Gumede should be called if those present could not provide the answers they were seeking. “Who are you, wena? Who invited you here? This is a metro internal matter. What you are doing here is nonsense this is South Africa you must speak Zulu here. Those who are abusing her (Sithole) must do it now, we are here,” the men could be heard saying to Nxusani. Krish Kumar, the deputy city manager for finance, confirmed signing the appointment letter for Nxusani to chair the hearing. “Definitely. I signed the appointment letter. This is a sensitive matter which can affect people’s lives. I wish you could handle it with that sensitivity. We will deal with this accordingly as management.” Thabani Mzulwini, national chairperson of the Delangokubona Forum, said they were not behind the disruptions on Friday and that he would send a statement. However, no statement was received. Co-operative governance spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said the incident had not been reported to his department. Nzuza said the hearing against Sithole, on charges relating to tender irregularities, would go ahead. “This does make official duties difficult and we need to try and secure people’s lives. This is scary, but the environment we work in is like this. I’m obliged to report the matter to the police and Cogta, but all the internal processes should be followed first,” he said. Shezi said: “There are recordings of what happened and the identities of these people are known. The city will move the hearing venue to one with maximum security and controlled access. Two of these people had guns. We have enlisted counselling for all those who were present.” Opposition parties said the incident was an indication that people’s lives were not safe at the municipality. IFP executive committee member Mdu Nkosi said: “Officials will find themselves not being able to implement decisions. It would seem that this group is used by individuals to fight their political battles.” The DA’s Sharon Hoosen called on Nzuza to press charges against those involved and investigate the matter further. She said further methods of beefing up security during disciplinary hearings should also be looked at. Attempts to get comment from Gumede were unsuccessful. Her office issued a statement saying she had requested a detailed report and an investigation on the events leading to the disruption. Daily News