DURBAN- The KwaZulu-Natal Funeral Directors Association has hit out at the eThekwini municipality after it identified two sites for crematoria in Phoenix and uMkhomazi. Logan Chetty, the director of the KwaZulu-Natal Natal Funeral Directors Association said the municipality should focus on making sure the Mobeni Heights crematorium was up and running properly before they start identifying sites for new crematoria. “Mobeni Heights is in such a pathetic state you would cry if you see it,” he said. Chetty said things were so bad that people could not make calls to the crematorium since its lines were down. “It’s a stupid shame,” he said The Daily News has previously reported on how broken furnaces have left mourners fuming after they could not cremate their loved ones. Chetty said the proposed crematoria for Phoenix and uMkhomazi should be privately run. He argued that it would take the municipality years to get the crematoria in the proposed sites up and running. He said it would take them between two to three months to get the proper documentation and for them to get a crematorium in uMkhomazi up and running. It comes after the city releases a statement mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede who said they had identified sites in eThekwini for burial space. The space is in Vulamehlo, Cato Ridge and Hammarsdale and it is expected the cemeteries would last 50 years. The city has set aside R216 million to fun the proposed sites. This revelation was made at hearings held by the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities which was held at the Protea Hotel in Durban on Thursday. Gumede said the hearing also noted that 54 of the existing 64 cemeteries in the municipality had reached their capacity. “Mayor Zandile Gumede said that the shortage of burial space in eThekwini was a serious challenge which the Municipality had been dealing with for years,” Gumede said. He said the mayor respected the rights of people who do not want use alternative burial methods for religious and cultural reasons. This was the reason the city had made its best efforts to find suitable land that could be used as cemeteries Zandile said. Daily News 