Durban - Another suspect allegedly linked to the disappearance of the elderly British couple Rod and Rachel Saunders is expected to be arrested soon. This is according to a police source, speaking to the Daily News after the court appearance of a  19-year-old teenager, Themba Xulu who was arrested this week in connection with the missing couple. Xulu along with Bibi Fathima Patel, 26, and Sayefundee Aslam Del Vecchio, 38 appeared in the Verulam Magistrate's Court on Thursday. The matter was adjourned to March 6 for a formal bail application. Patel and Del Vecchio were arrested last week in connection with the disappearance. The teenager along with Patel and De Vecchio - who are alleged to be members of the ISIS terrorist group - allegedly abducted the British couple in an alleged terrorist plot to get their hands on R734 000 of money. The Saunders credit cards was allegedly used to purchase jewellery, electronics and camping gear in the Umhlanga area. It is alleged that the transactions took place between February 10 and 15 around the time the couple went missing. The couple who have lived in Cape Town for years went missing two weeks ago. Their vehicle, a white Toyota Land Cruiser which was stolen during the alleged kidnapping with blood on the back seat was recovered by police in the Eshowe area last week. Del Vecchino and Patel are both charged with kidnapping, robbery, theft, contravening the  protection of constitutional democracy against terrorist and related terrorist activities. According to court papers, it is alleged that on February 15, Del Vecchino and Patel unlawfully displayed a ISIS terror group flag in the Eshowe area. It is believed that Del Vecchino and Patel  allegedly assaulted and kidnapped Rod and Rachel near Bivane dam in the area of Vreyheid between the period of February 10 and February 15 Xulu who was arrested this week was found with stolen property and has been charged with robbery with aggravating circumstances, theft and kidnapping. He was also found in possession of the Saunders cellphones which have now formed part of the evidence expected to assist the police to crack the case. Xulu was allegedly employed by Del Vicchino and Patel at their home in Endlovini Reserve area in Mthunzini to do odd jobs including driving their children to school. It is alleged that he did not work alone in the alleged kidnapping and the robbery. Daily News 