#JusticeForBianca was started at the weekend by relatives of Bianca Parsons, who was shot in an apparent case of mistaken identity on February 24. Parsons was on her way home with her husband and daughter when they stopped at a petrol station in Tara Road to buy a cool drink. While Parsons’s husband was inside the shop, a man walked up to their car and fired at her. She was declared dead at the scene. Last Monday, police arrested Darryl Murrisson, 33, and Christopher Houston, 26, for the crime. A firearm, believed to have been the one used to kill Parsons, was also recovered. Murrisson and Houston have appeared in court and were expected to apply for bail this week. Speaking to the Daily News on condition of anonymity, a relative said Parsons’s death was a “crushing blow” to the family. “Her death has also highlighted the social ills such as drugs and gangsterism that are ravaging the Wentworth community. A person’s life is of little or no value to gangsters in Wentworth. Bianca’s life may have meant nothing to them, but to her family, she was everything,” the relative said. “We want justice for Bianca so that all those who are a part of the drugs and gangsterism in Wentworth may know that ordinary people are not just pawns in their revenge battles. Instead, they are mothers, wives, daughters, aunts, sisters, colleagues, family and friends whose value can never be quantified,” the family member said. Parsons was described as a “loving person with a kind and quiet demeanour”. “Bianca was often the glue that kept the family together. She warmed the hearts of all, and her loss will be felt by those who were touched by her. Being with her family and spending time with her daughter is what made her most happy,” the relative said. In a separate interview with the Daily News, a group of Hime Street mothers said they lived in fear with the shootings that plagued the area, sometimes weekly. The mothers claimed they stood guard when their children went to and returned from school, for fear they might be assaulted. Wentworth ward councillor Aubrey Snyman said: “This is of grave concern to all responsible members in our community and this matter was brought to the attention of the Community Police Forum the very day this problem started. The matter is being addressed with police and other stakeholders. In the meantime, the police and some of our community leaders are monitoring various schools and the affected areas.” For the past year, the Durban-South township has been in the spotlight because of shootings and murders. At the weekend, a 22-year-old man was shot in the neck and armpit while attending a funeral. He was seated inside a tent when a gunman allegedly fired shots into the crowd of mourners. Wentworth police are investigating a case of attempted murder. Residents have called on police to establish a mobile police station in the area as a deterrent to the violence. Snyman said he had raised such a request with the CPF. In September last year, the Daily News reported that the government was considering setting up a special gang unit to look into the crime in Wentworth. Kwanele Ncalane, spokesperson for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda, said at the time that the deployment of a specialised unit would be one of the measures taken into consideration to combat crime. Six months later, Ncalane still has not answered questions posed to him on the progress made in setting up this unit. Daily News