Hundreds of frustrated applicants complained about the difference between the old and the new machines, claiming that more people have failed the test since the introduction of the latter. Generally, processing applications for learner’s and driver’s licences, as well as renewals, went at a snail’s pace, they said. Patricia Nel, 21, said she had arrived at the centre just after 5am to apply for her learner’s licence. “I went in after 10am, yet I was among the first to arrive," an irate Nel said. "I failed the eye test and will now have to go to a private doctor to do the test to prove that I don’t have an eye problem. “I will have to come back for another date to write my learner’s licence test. I will lose a day at work, and another day.” Another person, who did not want to be named, said he was returning for the second time for his learner’s licence. He failed the test last week and was returning for a new date before going to the optician. “It looks like I won’t have a date soon by the look of the number of people here," he said. "This centre has been malfunctioning for some time. It’s worse now that they have introduced these new eye-testing machines. It’s pathetic and lacks the much-touted Batho Pele principles.” Rossburgh Driving School Owners’ Association chairman Thabani Khumalo said the department of transport was failing to run  operations smoothly at its testing centres. He said since the introduction of the new machines last week, more people had failed the eye test and most did not have eye problems. “These machines are too sensitive," he said. "Once you balance your forehead on the designated spot to view the lenses as required, you have to be dead still. “A slight movement of your head triggers the machine to zoom out, hence the applicants can’t see the alphabets and thus fail the test. “These machines are not user friendly. The mechanism is different from the older machines,” Khumalo said. He said it was not clear how the transport department had awarded a contract for the machines without public consultation. “This is a multibillion-rand contract given to a company to provide these machines," he said. "Whether proper tender processes were followed is another story. "Rossburgh is the second-biggest testing station is South Africa, so Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda must intervene before we intensify our resolve to have this mess sorted.” Machines 'problematic' An employee at the testing facility admitted the machines were problematic and that something needed to be done. “People sit outside as early as 5am," she said. "It’s sad to see this happening to people, some of whom get turned away after waiting for hours,” she said. The centre has previously been in the news for the wrong reasons. In June 2017 the Daily News reported that people had been turned away because there was no water for three working days. People later complained that more should be done to make the process faster. Dysfunctional On Wednesday, the driving licence renewal section was also dysfunctional. Sbu Mkhwanazi said he waited in the queue for more than six hours to complete his renewal. Carol Pillay was there to renew her licence and was about to give up after standing in the queue outside for two hours. “It’s very frustrating, especially when you know that you have all your documents in order," she said. "There’s no seating arrangement and no one seems to care. These people should not make their problems ours. This is ridiculous.” A transport department official who was not designated to speak to the media said the new testing programme had been rolled out by the national department. Kwanele Ncalane, provincial Transport spokesperson, said he would gather information from the testing ground on the allegations and provide a comprehensive response. Daily News