That was the first that Srikesh Sewnarain, who was 17 at the time, knew something had happened to his mother, Shanaaz. It was only later that evening he learnt she had died, he told Durban High Court Judge Shyam Gyanda on Monday. “I broke down in tears,” Srikesh said, as his 51-year-old father listened from the dock. The senior Sewnarain, a truck-repair company owner based in Glen Road, Montclair, on Monday pleaded not guilty to murdering his wife on December 10, 2010 or, alternatively, of conspiring with a man called “Boxer” to have her killed. He also faces a charge of defeating or obstructing the course of justice for telling police investigators, while he was being treated in a Durban hospital, that his wife was shot dead during a hijacking. The indictment alleges that the hijacking was staged by Sewnarain and two others - including a hitman - to carry out the murder. Sewnarain was shot in the shoulder by Boxer to lend credence to the hijacking story, it was claimed. This is the second time that Sewnarain has faced such charges. He was first sentenced to life imprisonment in the Durban Regional Court 12 days after his wife’s body was found in the couple’s abandoned car in Folweni. He initially pleaded guilty, saying at a later review application - where he sought to have his conviction and sentence set aside and secure a new trial - that although he knew he was innocent, he wanted to “get it over with” to make his family happy. A subsequent appeal raised the issue of a section of the Magistrate’s Court Act, in which an accused has to be informed of his right to have assessors present at his trial, if he wishes, when facing a murder trial in the regional court. As there were no assessors, the earlier verdict was set aside and, as a result, the case is now back to the beginning, this time in the high court - this time with Sewnarain entering a “not guilty” plea. The indictment alleges that Sewnarain and his wife had an acrimonious relationship, and that Sewnarain had started an extramarital relationship with Farhana Gafoor. Although unaware of the affair, his wife’s growing suspicions further disintegrated the relationship and Sewnarain allegedly decided to have her killed, procuring the services of Boxer, who agreed to the plan in exchange for a sum of money. They agreed she would be killed in a staged hijacking, with Boxer calling in the services of a hitman. On the Friday night in question, Sewnarain made arrangements with his wife to go out to buy pizzas, but went to his business premises in Horsham Road, in Clairwood, where Boxer and the hitman were lying in wait in another vehicle. When the couple drove off, they were accosted by the hitman, who got into the vehicle, instructed Sewnarain to continue driving and then shot his wife dead. It is alleged they abandoned the vehicle with the body inside it Adams Mission. The hitman then shot Sewnarain in the shoulder to make it look as if he was a hijack victim. They got into Boxer’s vehicle and drove to Folweni where Sewnarain was left at the roadside. Questioned by state prosecutor Cheryl Naidu, Srikesh Sewnarain said on Monday that the family always got a takeaway on a Friday night, but that evening he and his sister said they would not go. He was tired after working all day and his sister wanted to watch a TV programme. Cross-examined by advocate Shane Matthews, Srikesh said his father first learnt that they were not going just before they left. He agreed his father had no reason to believe they were not going that night. Another witness, Siphiwe Shozi, recalled being in Folweni when a Golf Velocity stopped on the road and a man, whom he identified as Sewnarain, got out. The car then drove off. He thought Sewnarain was drunk because he staggered and fell. As Shozi got closer, Sewnarain stood up, saying: “Help me! Help me! He took my wife!” The traumatised Shozi ran off because “I was frightened and in shock and I saw blood on him.” He ran to a nearby house to see if anyone had airtime to call for help, and when he returned, he saw Sewnarain trying to flag down cars. He said he noticed a cellphone in Sewnarain’s pocket. Matthews put it to him that he was mistaken about seeing a cellphone, saying that Sewnarain would testify that his cellphone had been taken by the hijackers. “Why would he ask another man to phone (for a friend) if he had his own phone in his pocket?” Matthews asked. “Maybe he did not have any airtime,” Shozi replied. Daily News