Alvin Brijlal, director at the Victim Outreach & Information Centre (Voice), was speaking to the Daily News after a video showing a mother hitting and kicking her daughter went viral on social media. The video has caused outrage. Brijlal was alerted on February 2 about the video and immediately sprang into action. “I was told that the girl was taken to hospital and that she was going for brain scans. When I heard that, I knew it was serious. "At the time, I had not seen the video but I was told the mother had been abusing the child. When I arrived at the hospital, I saw the girl with her mother and this concerned me,” he said. Brijlal saw that the child was in a lot of pain. “She had marks on her face. Her legs were also very swollen. She was having lots of headaches and was in pain,” he said. Brijlal said when he spoke to the girl, she tried to cover up and lie about her injuries. “She told me that she had fallen off her bike. I found this very hard to believe. Her injuries were not consistent with her story. I realised that she was covering up because her mother was in the room with her,” he said. Brijlal said he asked if he could see the mother privately and, along with a female nurse in an office at the hospital, he questioned the mother about the girl’s wounds.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Brijlal said when he spoke to the girl, she tried to cover up and lie about her injuries. Video: Thobeka Ngema “I told her I had not seen the video but had information about it. She confessed that she had assaulted the child. She told me that her boyfriend told her to hit the child or he would hit them both,” he said. According to Brijlal, the mother’s boyfriend had allegedly punched the girl first. “He punched her and she fell against a cupboard. She told me she had merely tapped the child, but I told her I did not believe her. She further said she was unaware that the incident was being recorded by him,” he said. On Saturday, a case was opened and the mother was asked to give a statement. Brijlal said the woman’s boyfriend had gone into hiding,  but had called him (Brijlal) to say he would hand himself over. He failed to do so. “On Tuesday, the man’s father contacted me to say he wanted to hand his son over. The father sent me the video and I saw it  for the first time. I was horrified. It was pathetic for the mother to assault her child. I knew then that the child’s safety was in danger. "We have had previous cases where a mother has poisoned her child so I knew I had to act fast,” he said. Brijlal said the mother was taken away from the child and he arranged to meet the boyfriend’s father at the police station the next day. He said the police did not want to arrest the mother, but they did so after he showed them the video. Once the mother was arrested, the boyfriend and his father arrived at the Cato Manor police station. The couple were charged with assault and granted bail. The charges were then changed to attempted murder. Brijlal expressed his disappointment at images of the child and her name being shared on social media platforms. This, he said, is further abuse against the child. “She is a victim of a crime. I understand that the community is angry - I want justice, too. The child will have psychological counselling to help her through this and I appeal to the community to refrain from sharing this sensitive information. This is wrong and unlawful,” he said. Brijlal said the constant sharing of Baby G’s face caused her secondary trauma. He said in his 17 years as a community activist he had come across many abuse cases but this one "tugged at his heartstrings". Brijlal urged the community to do more to protect children. “We need to expose these incidents so our children can be helped,” he said. Baby G remains under guard at hospital, where she is recovering. Her attackers are due back in court next week. Daily News