It was alleged that King, from Newlands East, and the accused, 22-year-old Wentworth resident Tristan Augustus, had an altercation at the event held at the People’s Park, Moses Mabhida Stadium. Magistrate G Cele said Augustus pleaded not guilty to murder but admitted to stabbing King in self-defence. Cele said five witnesses were called to testify. Cele, referring to Augustus’s version of events, said Augustus was on his way back from the toilet when he was confronted by a group of men, including King, who accused him of interfering with a woman. Augustus denied this, but the men grew aggressive. He said they were armed with belts and knives. Augustus said he backpedalled when he saw the blade of a knife in King’s hand. He drew a knife from his own pocket to protect himself. King had sworn at him and struck out at him. Cele said they both struck at each other at the same time, but only Augustus’s knife made contact with King. King ran away. Augustus said he was hit from behind by someone, and then he also ran in the same direction as King, but denied he chased after King. Augustus then went home and told his grandmother what had happened. That night he received death threats on Facebook. During the trial, prosecutor Fortitude Nxaba asked for charges of murder to be instated. Attorney Ridewaan Sayed, who represented Augustus,  said the witnesses contradicted each other and this created doubt. He accused the witnesses of lying. Cele said one witness had given a statement while he was intoxicated, one had admitted he lied under oath and another, who was seated in the gallery during court proceedings, later made a statement to police. Sayed had argued that this witness had already been privileged to know what the others had said in court. Cele said a witness claimed he was forced to make a statement by police. “Who is telling the truth? There seems to be a manipulation of evidence,” Cele said. She said Augustus’s version of events, that there were other persons injured apart from King, was supported by the fact that three knives were found at the scene. Cele tore into the witnesses’ accounts and contradictions. “Did police manipulate evidence or are the witnesses lying? It remains a mystery to the court. The State failed to provide any evidence.” King’s mother, Charmaine King, said she was disappointed with the justice system and now relied on spiritual justice. Outside the court, some supporters clapped and whistled in celebration of the acquittal. Daily News