The Balgowan area of the Midlands is buzzing with stories about the annoying little insects. “It’s worse than it has ever been. Our guests checked out of our B&B early because they could not stand the flies any more,” complained a guest-house owner, who did not want to be named, adding that the unwanted flying visitors were costing him business. Doors and windows have to be closed to keep the pests out, and people are being forced to buy insecticides and put anti-fly washes on walls. “When guests come for lunch, you have to hand out fly swatters,” said another guest-house owner. “It’s unbelievably bad. It is destroying the quality of life and we live in the most beautiful part of the country. “Our domestic worker vacuums the house three or four times a day and by bedtime, it looks as if it has not been done at all,” said a resident. “Everyone has had enough,” said Dominique Marot, who has a smallholding with a B&B on it. “The flies are absolutely horrific,” commented Priscilla Young, secretary of the Balgowan Conservancy Committee. Patients, including children at a local clinic, have also been pestered by the swarms of flies. Now local people have formed a WhatsApp group, titled the “flycatchers”, to share their stories and pictures. They claim the fly problem stems from manure at the nearby Mkhombe Holdings’ egg-production Impangele Farm, which has 18 chicken houses, accommodating about 390 000 hens. Confirming that neighbours had been complaining “for a while”, chief executive Mike Kemp pointed out that “we have had a very bad winter and it is not killing the fly population at all”. “I don’t think any farmer was prepared for it. I hope it will be a lot better when we get cold weather.” He was told by an official from the Health Department that the entire Midlands had a fly problem. Local residents told the Daily News that the business had increased the number of its chicken houses recently and they wondered whether it was complying with the conditions of its environmental impact assessment (EIA). “We have just had an EIA audit and we have the correct number,” Kemp said. In terms of the EIA, the business was allowed to spread manure for fertiliser on the fields. Other farmers in the area also did it, although they did not have an EIA and did not receive complaints, said Kemp. However, this was in the process of being changed to a new system and the business had formed an alliance with a waste company to take the manure out of the area. “We will carry on until this comes right,” he said. Jeremy Brown, of the Waste Company, said: “Rest assured, Mike Kemp is trying to make things better for everyone, but he can’t be held solely accountable. “There’s cattle grazing in the area; it’s an agricultural area after all. Others are contributing to this, but he is willing to stand up and be counted.” Brown was removing 30 tons of manure from Impangele Farm every day, which would rise to 60 tons a day by the end of the month. It was initially going to farmers for fertiliser, and eventually would form part of a massive composting operation. “We are identifying the key risk area and will eliminate them,” he said. Daily News