The men were suspected of being involved in last month’s murder of Captain Dumisani Mhlanzi, 54, of Msinga in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Seventeen police officers had been killed in the province since January, the provincial police said. On February 23, at about 4pm, a group of men robbed a shop in KwaMaphumulo, of employees’ money. As the gang fled, they opened fire on Mhlanzi who was off duty at the time. The officer died later in hospital and was buried last Sunday. “Police action will continue to be tough and hard on dangerous criminals. They must retreat or regret; the energy levels of police action have been reloaded from that of a smaller engine, to the top-notch engine capacity,” Cele said. Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, national police spokesperson, said after the death of five policemen and a soldier at the Ngcobo police station in the Eastern Cape last month, National Commissioner General Khehla John Sitole had ordered that a multidisciplinary team be put together to “investigate, track down and bring the killers of Captain Mhlanzi to book”. The team - consisting of the National Intervention Unit, Durban K-9 Unit, Crime Intelligence and the Durban Hawks - made a breakthrough in Mhlanzi’s murder. One of the officers, who cannot be named, said the team “flushed” the “roughnecks” out on Wednesday. “We followed a lead and swooped on a house in KwaMashu where two suspects, aged 25 and 39, were arrested at around 4pm. “We proceeded to a hostel in Musa Road in the same area at about 8pm to arrest more suspects. Gunfire was exchanged, an indication that these criminals had no regard for law and order. During the exchange of fire, three of them were killed. “These men were heavily armed, and one of the firearms recovered was Captain Mhlanzi’s pistol,” the officer said. Brother Mhlanzi was described as a “man of law and order”, who did his best to ensure that the rule of law was upheld. His brother, Sipho Mhlanzi, said the officer had already submitted a letter for early retirement in June. “My brother had always wanted to be a policeman since he was young. After school, he joined the police. After training in Hammanskraal in 1986, he was stationed at KwaMaphumulo. “He was dedicated and had seven children from his late wife. “He had told the family he had submitted an early retirement letter so that he could return to his home in Greytown and be with the family after so many years. What happened to him is unforgivable, but we rely on the law to take its course,” Mhlanzi said. The minister called on police to regain public confidence. “Our communities must be safe and feel safe. The time has come for criminals to understand the fearless police language and begin to seriously respect the dignified blue,” Cele said. Major-General Bheki Langa, acting provincial police commissioner, welcomed the breakthrough. “We hope that the bold actions of these police officers will bring some closure to the family of Captain Mhlanzi. “I commend the multidisciplinary approach employed by KZN police to ensure that criminals are brought to book. We wish to remind criminals not to even think of shooting at our police officers as they will be making a mistake,” Langa said. He appealed to communities and families not to encourage criminal activities. “It is very disturbing to see criminals receiving a hero’s send-off during their funerals where family and friends turn up in numbers to show support to these criminals,” he said, referring to guns being fired and drivers performing wheelspins at these funerals. Mary de Haas, KZN violence monitor, said: “If there was proper crime intelligence, the situation would not have gone up to this level. Police are surely at risk during shoot-outs. “I’m glad that there have been arrests in this particular case, because when these suspects die we don’t get to the bottom of the matter. “There are positive signs that the police are trying their level best to combat crime, but we need to trace the missing police guns and bulletproof vests, and provide more security for the men in blue,” De Haas said. Daily News