Zuma’s lawyer, Michael Hulley, on Monday confirmed that his client had been served with a summons to appear at the Durban High Court on April6. Zuma is facing 16 fraud and corruption charges related to the controversial arms deal. Hulley said Zuma’s legal team was preparing an application to review the National Director of Public Prosecutions’ decision to prosecute. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed that the summons had been served on Zuma and French arms company Thint. Zuma, who was forced to resign by the ANC last month, was at the centre of a multi-
billion-rand military acquisition deal in the 1990s. If allegations of large-scale bribery and corruption are proved true, it would be the biggest corruption scandal in the country’s history, with millions of rand of public money lost to bribery and corruption. Meanwhile, the ANC remains adamant that it does not want to see ANC paraphernalia outside court when Zuma appears. Addressing the media on Sunday in Cape Town, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said although party members had a right to support Zuma, they should do so “in their individual capacity and not through structures of the movement”. “Members involved in such actions are discouraged from displaying ANC paraphernalia and thus creating the false impression that the ANC as an organisation identifies with, or approves of, the misdemeanours of which any member or leader may be accused,” he said. However, leaders of the party structures, including leagues, in KwaZulu-Natal said members would not be stopped from supporting Zuma under the party’s banner. ANC Veterans League provincial secretary Teresa Mthembu said the league would support Zuma “in his darkest hours”. “Come rain or shine we will support Msholozi to the end. We support Zuma because he is a member of the ANC. He was the ANC president and he has not left the ANC,” she said. ANC eThekwini region secretary Bheki Ntuli said his office had received calls “from many comrades” saying they would to go court in their numbers to support Zuma. “How do you stop a person from wearing something? Zuma was not fired from the ANC, and former presidents are respected as former presidents of the ANC,” said Ntuli. Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association provincial chairperson Themba Mavundla said they would hold a meeting to establish reasons for the  ANC to ban party members from wearing party regalia at the court. Daily News