Organised by the Ithala Development Finance Corporation - KZN’s provincial development agency - the event recognises and rewards clients for their role in developing an entrepreneurial province. The 15 nominees, who come from as far as Pongola, Newcastle and Kokstad, have been selected as they “epitomise a spirit of entrepreneurship, have a good track record of financial performance, made an impact in their community and demonstrated innovation and personal integrity,” explained Ithala acting group chief executive Themba Mathe. Ithala’s business finance unit plays a catalytic role in facilitating the development and empowerment of KZN-based SMMEs and co-operatives while also taking seriously its commitment to be a responsible financial services provider. The agency provides financial and non-financial support to viable businesses to enable their growth and advancement. Over the past three years, Ithala has disbursed R878 600 000 to some 700 businesses, resulting in more than 8 000 jobs being created. Of these, 28% are women-owned businesses, and young people comprise almost 40% of those on Ithala’s loan book. One nominee is Mhlonipheni Joseph Zulu of Siyawise Hlathi, a timber harvesting and loading company which supplies Mondi in Richards Bay. “We have been operating for 11 years. It has been a long, difficult journey,” he said. “When I started out I had very limited financial resources, and the strain of the business began to take a toll on my health. There was a point when I was wheelchair-bound. “I took a leap of faith and decided to apply for finance at Ithala so that I could buy two tractors. My application was successful and I now have this crucial piece of equipment, which has made things so much easier.” The nomination was proof that he was making a difference in his community, he said. Another nominee is Thamsanqa Ngcobo of Mlalazi Trading, a logistics company operating in Eshowe and Umgungundlovu, which offers commuter bus transportation. “We’ve been in business for seven years. I started out in the taxi industry. When the government implemented transformation policies in various sectors of the economy, I acquired shares in a local bus company,” he said. “The first buses we used were leased until my application for funding to Ithala was successful and I was able to buy nine buses.” Another nominee is Zaba Ngubane, of Logoman Designs, which focuses on branding, graphic and web design, signage and printing, which has been in business for eight years. “Ithala has been there every step of the way. The nomination has encouraged me to grow in this entrepreneurial journey.” Another nominee, Sifiso Mahlalela of Ovetrine 235 CC, which offers radiology services in Newcastle, said that when he received finance from Ithala, he was able to open a second branch. The awards ceremony will take place at Coastlands on the Ridge Hotel on Wednesday, when the entrepreneur of the year will win a R50 000 cash prize, plus R10 000 to give to a charity of his or her choice. Category award winners will each receive R30 000, and special-awards winners will get R10 000 each. Daily News