Dr Lauren King was responding under cross-examination to the proposal by defence lawyer, advocate Murray Pittman, that given the mother’s history of brain injury, a mild intellectual disability and drug abuse could have contributed to her actions. Evidence before court was that the mother had an accident in 2001 and apparently started using heroin in 2012. King confirmed the State’s version that the mother could distinguish between right and wrong. “She knew right from wrong and could act in accordance with that knowledge,” she said. She said the drugs and the accident could not have had any effect on her actions. The Chatsworth woman and her mother are accused of torturing Baby X to death at their home in November 2014. The mother’s defence was that she was mentally unstable and her mother abused her children and bullied her because of her mental instability. They have both pleaded not guilty to charges of child abuse, assault and sexual assault against Baby X’s two older 
siblings, who are now nine and 12. The grandmother also pleaded not guilty to assaulting, sexually assaulting and raping Baby X. Abusive The little girl cannot be named to protect the identity of her siblings. King said the mother had described her poor background and her home environment as abusive. She had told her about her father’s drug problem and about the bad relationship with her mother who never loved her. “In her view, her younger sister was her mother’s favourite. She never spoke much about her brother whom she didn’t have much problems with. She told me that she feared her mother who exercised control over her children, saying that she had no say about her own children,” said King. According to the findings of Dr Rosanne Hardy, who conducted a private assessment of Baby X’s mother, “her severe brain injury in interaction and in combination with her opioid abuse disorder would have diminished her capacity to control her behaviour, exercise appropriate judgment and reasoning, and impaired her ability to carry out her role as a parent”. Furthermore, she said the mother appeared to have lacked the appropriate social, government, medical and professional support after her severe brain injury which was recommended by various experts. Evidence by a State witness, psychologist Emily Elkington, was that her 2015 psychological assessment found that the mother could distinguish the difference between right and wrong. The State closed its case on Wednesday and now both parties are expected to prepare and submit written final arguments before the oral arguments are heard on June 28. Daily News