In a media statement released this week, the municipality announced a “Remix Water” project which would begin this month and end in November next year. The project will produce potable water that will be assessed for its quality. Shanice Firmin, of SDCEA, said there was little public consultation, and stakeholders such as fishermen were not informed of the development. The noise made by the plant could chase away fish. Residents of Bluff and 
Austerville, who were most affected, were being excluded, and it seemed the municipality was not trying to engage meaningfully with the community, said Firmin. “They totally disregarded the normal person who does not understand the process.” Another concern was the disposal of chemicals that would be used in the desalination plant. Firmin said these chemicals would be dumped into the sea, which would damage marine life. It also looked like the water produced by the desalination plant would benefit industrial companies more than general consumers, she said. According to research done by eThekwini Water and Sanitation (EWS), inner city demands for water are currently at 65 megalitres a day. “This demand outstrips the supply of 50 megalitres a day and thus the need to augment the supply by 15 megalitres a day by 2020,” said Ednick 
Msweli, the head of EWS. The municipality said that in 2016 mayor Zandile Gumede signed a memorandum of understanding with the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organisation,  of Japan. The company organises and promotes research and development,  as well as the deployment of energy and environmental technologies. Hitachi, also of Japan, will be the implementing agent. Once complete, the plant is set to run for one year during which time the technology and  water that is produced will be assessed. Msweli said they were looking at this system because of the drought. He said the system was energy-efficient and environmentally friendly. Richards Bay has an up-and-running desalination plant. Mdu Ncalane, the communications manager at uMhlathuze District Municipality, under which Richards Bay falls, said the plant had been operating since March 12 last year. The project is a joint venture between the municipality and the Department of Water and Sanitation. Ncalane said the plant, a pilot project, cost about R600 million and produced about 10 megalitres a day. “The plant is only used in urgent cases,” Ncalane said. It did, however, come with its own challenges, he said. The huge cost of electricity was a problem. If the plant was to be used every day, it would cost the municipality R500 000 a month, Ncalane said. This was why the municipality was looking at plans such as using solar energy to power it. Other options for power include liquefied natural gas and partnering with independent power producers. Consumers were barely able to taste the difference between water that had been through a desalination plant and normal water. The salt that is left behind was sent back to the sea, Ncalane said. He said the costs of running the plant were shared between the municipality and the Department of Water and Sanitation. Daily News