From Monday, some of the employees would be working from the Dokkies Training Academy building in Glenwood. The Daily News last month reported on employees’ allegations that the Education Department had run out of funds because it did not pay its Telkom telephone bill at Truro House, and the lines were disconnected. Employees on Sunday claimed the department did not have an infrastructure budget to pay for the maintenance of the building, including the fixing of air conditioners and lifts. Frustrated with their working conditions, employees at the 12-storey Margaret Mncadi Avenue building downed tools last week and refused to return until all the infrastructure problems were rectified. They alleged the Education Department was waiting for the new financial year to come into effect to pay its debts, but was uncertain where the money to fix the building would come from. “For years we pleaded with the officials of the department to fix the building and maintain it. We could not take it anymore. We always questioned why things were being maintained in the management floors, but general workers were suffering,” said an employee. Bheki Shandu, the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union deputy secretary, said the deteriorating conditions of the building had been an unresolved issue for years . He said the union officials visited the building last week and found it to be in an unbearable state. Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of SA, said they had tried everything to get the department to sort out the issues of its building, but were ignored for years. She questioned why the department would let a building that housed so many employees and provided such an important service be neglected for so long. “It didn’t have to come to this. We supported the workers’ decision to dump work and demand a better place to work in. If there was a political will for this building to get the urgent renovations it needs, it was going to be possible,” she said. Members of staff said that almost all the toilets, except for those in the MEC’s and management offices and suites, were not working. “Most employees had to walk down to the toilets on the first floor. The conditions became worse when the lifts were not working and we had to use the stairs. “We had become used to the issue of no ink, paper, air conditioners and lifts, as we were ignored all the time,” said the employee. Moodley said that for years they had received complaints about faulty air conditioners, non-payment of telephone service, out-of-service lifts, lack of paper and ink. “Last week, we said we were not going to allow our members to continue working from that place. It is a health hazard and dangerous. We supported them when they eventually decided to walk out of there,” said Moodley. The last straw was when water from the air conditioning system affected the telephone lines and stopped all means of communication. The staff refused to work and gathered at the Dokkies Hall. They were later addressed by department officials. Kwazi Mthethwa, Education Department spokesperson, said while some workers would be temporarily housed at Dokkies, others had been asked to return to the building with a promise that the logistical issues would be sorted out. “Yes, we are aware of the issues with our building. Temporarily, we organised portable air conditioners for those employees who would be working from Truro House. “We are also deploying technicians to sort out the faulty telephone lines and air conditioners. “The problems with Truro House are logistical, and as the department, we are on top of them,” said Mthethwa. Daily News