Durban - The courts have convicted and sentenced three rapists from three different rape incidents. On Wednesday, the uMzimkhulu Regional Court handed Nkosikhona Sikhakhane, 38, a life sentence for raping a 43-year-old woman in 2015. “It is alleged on 8 October 2015, a then 43-year-old woman was at Intsikeni location when she was accosted by the accused who forced her to the nearest bushes, threatening her life. He took her to the bushes where he repeatedly raped her. The victim managed to flee and reported the incident to the police where a case of rape was opened at Intsikeni police station,” said Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson. Gwala said he was also sentenced to five years for kidnapping. On Tuesday, Vusikhaya Mavusana Edward, 37, from KwaDabeka was also sentenced to life imprisonment for raping an 11-year-old girl. She said Vusikhaya had gone to the girl’s house to load electricity on the meter box but after he was done, he raped the girl. “When he finished, he threatened her that if she told her parents he would hurt her badly. It was only after the mother of the victim noticed her strange behavior, when she questioned her, she told her she had been repeatedly raped by Mavusana,” she said. In another incident, Gwala said two siblings, eight and 10, were raped by their mother’s relative in KwaDabeka in 2016 while they were living with their mother and their mother’s uncle at a house. “When the mother woke up one morning, she went to check up on her daughters who were sleeping in the lounge, to her surprise she found her 37-year-old uncle sexually abusing her 10-year-old daughter. Upon questioning her daughter about what was happening, the daughter told her that “mkhulu” has been abusing her,” she said. She said he was sentenced to 28 years by the Pinetown Regional Court. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, said: “Gender-Based Violence cannot be tolerated and we will ensure that we deal with perpetrators with an ‘iron fist’ to protect women and children of this country.” Daily News