Premier Willies Mchunu and Public Works MEC Ravi Pillay will send a team of their officials to the Machwebeni Palace in Ingwavuma to assess the work done last year. This is one of eight palaces belonging to the king. Others are eNyokeni, Kwa-Dlamahlahla, KwaKhangela, KwaKhethomthandayo, Lindizulu, KwaNobamba and Ondini. It was reported that the provincial government spent R15 million on renovating the palaces in the 2012/13 financial year. The following financial year another R20m was allocated for the overall maintenance of the royal household infrastructure, including the refurbishment of palaces, but it is not clear whether this money was spent. He said the quality of the work did not amount to R10m that the provincial government had allocated for the refurbishment.  “The money spent there does not even amount to R7m. The money was stolen,” the king said. He also complained about the quality of material used for construction. “If I am sleeping on a windy night I can hear some flappings inside, and it is terrible when it is cold. “The house I built for myself in Osuthu Palace is far better.” He said he would find time to accompany the team so that he would show them the shoddy workmanship. “I know where the Zululand government stopped the construction and where the KwaZulu-Natal government took over and ended,” he said. The king said the money was not allocated to reconstruction of the palace from scratch, “but it was just a refurbishment”. “But even today that work is not equal to the R10m I was told about,” he said. He said he had raised the matter with Parliament last year. “The curtains also do not even have linings. The bedrooms are bad. My wives (Queens) can tell you. “No one had spoken to me about the refurbishment of that palace,” he said. Mchunu’s spokesperson Thami Ngidi said the premier’s office had noted the king’s concern. “As far as I am aware there is no investigation by the office of the premier. The relevant department to speak to is Public Works,” said Ngidi. Pillay’s spokesperson Mbulelo Baloyi said the MEC’s office had not been aware of the condition of the palace. Baloyi said department officials from the north coast region who are responsible for the Ingwavuma area said they were not involved in the work done at the palace. “It was the responsibility of the Department of the Royal Household when the premier was Senzo Mchunu. We are not involved,” said Baloyi. Allocated Royal Household Trust chairman Professor Sihawu Ngubane distanced the trust from the project. “The money was not allocated by our trust; it came from the government, and they must answer. The money was allocated, but the work was not satisfactory,” said Ngubane. The king’s adviser, Judge Jerome Ngwenya, the former chairman of the defunct Royal Household Trust Board, also said the question should be directed to the provincial 
government. “The king was pointing out that money was spent by people using his name. We are not part of this, as this was the work of the province. “The Department of Public Works paid the money and they issued the tender,” said Ngwenya. Daily News