Durban - There was drama outside the Durban harbour on Sunday afternoon after ferocious winds tested the capabilities of the sea rescue teams. Nomusa Dube-Ncube, KZN MEC for Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) said heavy rains swept through the Midlands, northern and eastern parts of the province. They had anticipated localised flooding and had sent out alerts to all municipalities, calling on residents to be cautious. “Our disaster management teams are monitoring all routes and areas that are susceptible to floods. Municipalities stand ready to provide shelter for those who are at risk of localised flooding. So far there have not been any incidents reported, but the department is keeping a watchful eye on developments,” said Dube-Ncube. While reports on damages on the ground trickled in the National Sea Rescue (NSRI) had their hands full when a sudden sudden storm caused boats to get into difficulty in the harbour. Andre Fletcher, the NSRI Durban deputy station commander, said a sudden change in wind speed and direction to a 40-knot south-westerly wind saw a number of boats get into difficulties around Durban on Sunday. “The NSRI Durban duty crew was activated by the Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) following a request for assistance from the yacht Tequila Sunrise, which ran aground on the North Breakwater at the Port of Durban, with three people on board,” he said. Fletcher said that while the NSRI were launching two sea rescue craft – Megan II and Eikos Rescuer II – the harbour’s pilot boat, Lufafa, went to assist the yacht. They were able to pull the yacht off the breakwater and tow her to the Navy mooring safely,where the owners will assess the damage. The NSRI could assist to tow her to the Point Yacht Club moorings,” Fletcher said. No one was injured. The NSRI were then diverted to respond to assist the yacht FourYearsWinds, who were at the entrance to the harbour, and needing assistance in the strong winds. “A police sea-border control boat reached the yacht Four Winds and took her under tow and towed her to the international yacht moorings,” Fletcher said. Another yacht, Magenta, called for assistance. This time the sea rescue craft  Megan II was diverted to respond to assist the yacht Magenta with three crew on board, two men and a woman on board. Fletcher said they had been on an afternoon cruise on using motor power when the storm caught them. The yacht’s single motor was unable to cope against in the difficult the sea conditions. “The NSRI rendezvoused with them four nautical miles off-shore of the Moses Mabhida Stadium and took them under tow. They were towed by our sea rescue craft to the Point Mmarina,” Fletcher said. It would not end there for the NSRI. Their sea rescue craft Eikos Rescuer II responded to assist the harbour tug boat, Fleur du Cap, reportingwhen a service boat and a rubber duck were dislodged from the vessel during the storm. Fletcher said the unmanned rubber duck, unmanned,  was swept away and was missing somewhere in the vicinity of the entrance to the Port of Durban. He said the NSRI located the rubber duck with the centre console washed overboard, but still attached. “The sea rescue craft had towed the rubber duck to Fleur du Cap. After all operations were completed no further assistance was required,” Fletcher added. On March 16, the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a warning about a severe tropical storm, Eliakim, which lashed Madagascar. Ezekiel Sebego, SAWS forecaster Ezekiel Sebego said the storm reached landfall along the north-eastern coastline of Madagascar and said the storm forecast showed it stayed well away from South African shores. Duncan Ddu Bois, a resident on the Bluff, said 6mm of rain fell over the area, according to his rain gauge. In the Upper Highway area, three trees were reported to have collapsed due to the winds. Firemen and the local neighbourhood watch removed a large tree that had blocked both lanes on the M13 near the Shongweni Road turn-off ramp. Daily News