“The very high unemployment rate needs sustained economic growth at a much higher level - of around 3% or more - which would be sustained year after year. Just one year of growth of 5% will not make an impact. We need strong growth for a number of years,” said Old Mutual Investment Group economist Johann Els. He was speaking at the Old Mutual Superfund Summit held in Durban on Wednesday. Els said South Africa had experienced dismal growth over the past few years. “This was mostly impacted by lack of confidence due to political issues. That lack of confidence and weak economic growth has made us see growth below 1%, all impacted by confidence levels. “The return to confidence that came after President Cyril Ramaphosa won the ANC elections in December, and subsequent actions, like the new board at Eskom, everything that he said at the State of the Nation address and the Budget have all been positively perceived by the markets.” He said the National Budget was back to fiscal consolidation, reducing the budget deficit and taking control of the government’s debt ratio. Deficit “This is not only to reduce the deficit, but also to prevent a further ratings downgrade. We think that what they have done will be enough to prevent Moody’s from downgrading us again. The greater confidence and better budget will allow the Reserve Bank to cut interest rates, because in this environment we have very low inflation. “The rand has been reflecting this improved confidence. A strong rand, low inflation, a better budget, no Moody’s downgrade, which we hope should help to improve growth this year, compared with the low growth the country has had over the past few years.” Old Mutual Alternative Investor Relations head Doug Thomson said they had been growing steadily and are managing around R58 billion. Thomson said one of the long-term challenges the group  had identified in South Africa was the shortage of housing, particularly for the so-called missing middle. “These individuals do not necessarily qualify for an RDP home; on the other side they cannot secure bank financing to purchase their own home, while they still had income that they would like to direct towards securing accommodation,” he said. “We have identified this space and are partnering with developers to actually bring green-fields developments online. Taking raw land, planning it, placing basic infrastructure in, building the homes and identifying tenants that can manage those homes. This is a large-scale development from the ground up. We have developed more than 10 000 houses to date, and with student accommodation facilities in possession, the fund has demonstrated a strong track record.” Daily News