Durban - Two officials from the eThekwini municipality implicated in the Urine-Diversion (UD) toilets scandal have been suspended and will be gone by Thursday afternoon. 
Sipho Nzuza, eThekwini Municipality manager, made the announcement at a press briefing to respond to the allegations of tender fraud plaguing the city. The Sunday Tribune reported this week that  R36.1 million was flushed down the drain after two senior officials at eThekwini Municipality allegedly authorised prepayment to four companies that failed to supply toilet facilities to impoverished communities. According to the report by the city’s Integrity and Investigative Unit (CIIU), 2 200 Urine-Diversion (UD) toilets were to be supplied to communities and schools in 31 rural and semi-urban municipal wards, including KwaXimba, Cato Ridge and KwaNyuswa. Another thorn in the cities side was the forensic investigation into the awarding of a contract for R90 million to supply orange recycling bags to the city. The CIIU has found that the tender process was fraught with irregularities. The award was made to a company which lacked experience and the technical knowledge. The investigators' report, leaked to The Mercury, found that Persian Star Investments 11 CC  was "wrongly awarded this tender" based on misrepresentations it made in terms of its capacity to handle the massive contract.Persian Star Investments 11 CC continuously failed to meet its end of the deal, resulting in the city running out of these bags. Introduced a decade ago, the award-winning orange bag programme is an initiative to promote recycling to reduce waste at landfills and promote the separation of waste at source. Nzuza vowed that he will act against those who violate the municipal finance management act and those who flout council processes. "I have implemented the recommended action and initiated a disciplinary process against those implicated pending further investigation and ensuring that the matter is handled within the labour relations act. The city has also laid criminal charges. We cannot comment further because of the internal disciplinary process and criminal proceedings. We have taken a tough stance against other transgressors. Thus far the city has blacklisted 20 companies who have breached regulations. Blacklisting is important and allows the city to deal with reputable and honest companies," Nzuza said. Daily News