Durban - The maternity department of the KwaMashu Community Health Centre successfully delivered twins by natural birth, who were in the breech position. Ziphi Ndlovu, 26, delivered twins, Ziyanda and Azande Mtshali at KwaMashu CHC with the assistance of midwife Sr Doreen Ndawonde and her team, said Agiza Hlongwane, KZN Health Department spokesperson. “They were born 35 minutes apart, weighing 2.3kg and 2.5kg respectively. Both were in a breech presentation during birth, which is when a baby’s head does not move closer to the birth canal a few weeks before birth. In such cases, the baby's buttocks and/or feet are positioned to be delivered first,” said Hlongwane. Ndlovu, the twins mother, thanked the maternity team at KwaMashu CHC and said the two week old babies are healthy. “They are doing well, and growing slowly. I am very pleased with the way I was treated at the health facility. I was extremely worried, and had doubts that my babies would live because I was told that the breech presentation is very risky. I am extremely grateful to the nursing staff at KwaMashu CHC,” Ndlovu said. Ndawonde said delivering a breech is within her scope, but it is a challenging situation, especially if it is twins. “You may never know the outcome. That is why they are usually not delivered at clinics because things can get complicated. I did what I could, and am happy that it all went well,” said Ndawonde. Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC congratulated the maternity unit for the delivery of the twins. “We wish to congratulate all the midwives involved in the delivery of these babies. It is always touching to see our healthcare professionals succeeding in complex clinical situations. This is once again testimony that we have among us people who are highly skilled, committed and dedicated to their work. We are extremely proud of them, may they continue working hard,” said Dhlomo. Dr Neil Moran, the Head of Clinical Department: Obstetrics and Gynaecology in the KZN Department of Health, said that in South Africa twin pregnancies occur on an average rate of 1 in 50 pregnancies and about 15% or these will have both babies in the breech presentation at the time of delivery. “These days the great majority of breech presentations would be delivered by caesarean section, and so it is quite unusual for both twins to be delivered vaginally. Well done to the midwives involved for a professional job done,” said Moran. Moran also said that twins in general are higher risk than singleton pregnancies both for the mother and for the babies – and that unusual presentation of the babies at birth is more common. “For the mother, a particular risk around the time of delivery is an increased risk of post-partum haemorrhage (heavy bleeding after the delivery of the baby). The mother is more likely than usual to go into preterm labour than with a singleton pregnancy, which means that the babies are more likely to suffer complications of prematurity. Malpresentations of the babies at are also more common, which can lead to difficult or traumatic delivery if no one with advanced skills in conducting delivery is present,” he continued. Moreover, as the babies were smaller than average newborns, the mother was probably a little bit preterm and had gone into preterm labour. If the mother had arrived in time at the hospital, when she was still early in labour, the doctors would have probably chosen to do a caesarean section because both twins were breech. In less skilled hands breech deliveries by the vaginal route can be problematic as the baby can get injured or stuck during delivery. This could lead to injury or even death of the baby,” he said. Daily News