Mthembu said on Wednesday the problem with agriculture being unpopular, particularly with South African youth, was that most of their parents grew up on farms. “There they saw their whole families being put through slave conditions. Now, the only thing that somebody wants when they grow up is to get out of that environment,” said Mthembu. He was speaking to the media after addressing the attendees of the regional and local economic development summit held at the Durban ICC on Wednesday. In his address, Mthembu focused on using the sector as a catalyst towards youth economic empowerment. “Even at school, if you (the pupil) had been naughty, they would send you to go do the garden (as punishment).  It (agriculture) had been promoted as something negative, which is what we want to take out among our communities, particularly our youth, to make agriculture a career of choice going forward.” Mthembu said their priority was to encourage the culture of agricultural production in the province, with the youth being their main target. “We want to pull them into knowing that playing a role in the economy would need them to be involved in agriculture. We need to have programmes that start at early childhood levels, so that children at that level are taught agriculture. “In schools, we are currently meeting agriculture educator organisations to have programmes in which we will work with them to encourage pupils to develop a love for agricultural studies. Schools should also have agricultural programmes, so pupils could be exposed to it and want to implement it at their homes.” MEC Mthembu said they would also want to encourage students to study agricultural subjects from undergraduate level right up to post-graduate level. “We want to have targets of the numbers of degree holding students we want to produce, right up to doctoral level. One thing that makes a sector grow is the production of more PhD holders for sustainability’s sake,” he said. Money He added that the KZN Department of Agriculture and Rural Development would also have many other programmes with youth in the communities. These included mini-summits throughout the province, where they would meet youth to discuss what they could do to promote agriculture in their communities. Mthembu said the amount of money which would go into the programme would be determined by the youth. He had earlier told the summit the department would establish a women and youth in agriculture directorate to focus on members of these two groups who were involved in agriculture in the province, to maximise their economic impact. The University of KZN’s school of agriculture’s Professor Thembinkosi Modi said that while there was no scientific proof of MEC Mthembu’s statement, he partly concurred. “However, agriculture is not only about farming. Previously, only sons and not daughters of farmers were taught farming, without the other aspects linking it to the economy. Agriculture is now sophisticated, as it includes bio-technology, crop modelling and agri-business, among other things,” said Modi. “Most students today who study agriculture do not only do it because they want to be mere farmers. “They want to be farmers of the 21st century who are called agri-preneurs, whose jobs are not only to produce food for the people, but to be involved in services linked to the sector, which is where the money is.” Modi suggested that the department should come to universities too, to advise students on the important role agriculture plays in the economy. Daily News