One contract was for the clearance and eradication of vegetation in close proximity to low and medium voltage overhead lines and substations over two years. This was in line with electrical installation regulations that stated that the municipality was responsible for the safety, safe use and maintenance of electrical installations in its charge. A report tabled at Exco yesterday found that the city would fail to commit to providing basic electricity to customers if the initial budget of R23.4m was not adjusted by a further R13m. The increase in funding was due to the use of mobile elevated work platforms such as bucket trucks and cherry pickers. This increased the costs by 35%, while the increase in clearing teams was 28%. Without the services of these contractors, customers - including primary and high schools, universities of technology and FET colleges - would experience electricity disruptions. The report sought approval for the adjustment of the budget. Another contract was for the maintenance and repair of medium and low voltage (MV/LV) substations, and overhead and underground mains for the MV/LV operations for a two-year period. The report stated that the city’s electricity unit had procured more than 140 electricians from eight contractors to help undertake preventative and breakdown maintenance on the distribution network equipment. For this task, the city had R50m remaining from the initial budget of R250m, and therefore requested an additional R50m by January to April next year. Exco heard that another contract, which started in September 2016 at a budget of R91.2m, had an available balance of just over R8m. The contract was scheduled to expire in August, but now required an additional R30m to complete the construction of electrical and fibre optic networks to meet service delivery requests. “The service delivery requests for electrification could not be determined in advance as it has dependencies on land acquisition which was unknown at the time of budgeting,” the report stated. The DA supported the recommendations as it would provide “much-needed service” to the people. Nicole Graham, DA eThekwini caucus leader, said the party hoped to see better planning in future. Mayor Zandile Gumede said there was a need for a programme and strategy to oversee who was doing what in the city “If we don’t supervise those doing business with us, we might not get the desired results and, if things go wrong, we are the first to be blamed,” Gumede said. Daily News