IFP member and uThukela District Municipality official Mazibuko, 44, died in a hail of bullets on Saturday afternoon when he and an unidentified colleague were ambushed on the R74 while returning from a party meeting in Colenso. The unidentified colleague's finger was hit, while Mazibuko was hit several times, with one bullet striking him in the head. Mazibuko was also the IFP publicity secretary in uThukela District. His murder came just two days after Police Minister Bheki Cele's announcement of progress made by the Inter-Ministerial Task Team set up by President Cyril Ramaphosa about two months ago to investigate political killings in the province. IFP MP Mkhuleko Hlengwa, the party’s national spokesperson, said the party did not wish to speculate on why Mazibuko was killed. “While we wish not to speculate on the reasons for this tragedy, it is of serious and grave concern that the killing of politicians has become a permanent feature of the political landscape of KwaZulu-Natal. This prevailing culture of violence does not bode well for free and fair elections next year.” Hlengwa said the “slow pace” of police interventions in curbing political violence was “worrisome”. “The SAPS and other law enforcement agencies are clearly weak and poorly capacitated to deal with political violence,” he said. Hlengwa called for peace and calm and for the investigation to be allowed to run its course. “The IFP and the community of uThukela have been robbed by agents of darkness and enemies of peace of a hard-working servant of the people. We are indeed poorer because of this untimely loss,” he said. Family spokesperson Mbuzeleni Mkhize said Mazibuko had been ambushed about 20 minutes after leaving the meeting. He said they could not press the survivor for more information as he had to be taken to hospital. They had thus left the matter in the hands of the police. KZN police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the motive for the murder was not known. A murder case was opened at Estcourt police station. No arrests have been made. Mary de Haas, a KZN violence monitor, said it was too early to comment on the effectiveness of the ministerial task team, and warned against speculating on the cause of the killings. “The existing problem is that there has been no permanent commissioner in the province for some years. There's a feeling that the minister has some level of commitment to put an end to this,” De Haas said. Daily News