Durban - If you’re planning a trip this long weekend, you may not be the only one. Here are some tips to keep in mind before you drive off for your much-needed break. Motorists travelling between Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal this Heritage Day long weekend are warned to be prepared for peak traffic conditions and possible delays. Peak conditions are expected between 2pm and 8pm in a southbound direction, and also on Saturday morning between 6am and 12pm. High traffic volumes can be expected on Monday, September 24 from noon until 8pm with the majority of vehicles traveling northbound towards Gauteng. The N3 Toll Concession's Van Reenen’s Pass southbound lanes are open to traffic, said N3TC’s Anita Heyl. Heyl said there was a paraffin spill along the highway, which resulted in the roadway being closed for clean up operations. “All southbound lanes and one northbound lane have been been re-opened to traffic,” she said. So you're good to go, but be mindful. Heyl advised motorists to plan their fuel stops in advance due to the closure of three filling stations along the N3 route being closed. “Since the closure of these stations, a sharp increase in the number of vehicles running out of fuel has been noted by N3TC’s route patrol teams,” she said. There are no fuel stops available between Van Reenen’s Pass and Estcourt along the KwaZulu-Natal section of the N3 Toll Route. “Both direct access facilities near Tugela Plaza and Estcourt remain closed for renovations; and in the Free State, the fuel stop near Balmoral - before Harrismith when travelling south - is also closed for renovation. Motorists will have to go off the route for fuel along this section. Heyl said the following fuel stops currently operational along the N3 Toll Route are located near; Heidelberg, Villiers, Harrismith, Van Reenen’s Pass, Estcourt (Midway) and Nottingham Road. Motorists can breathe a sigh of relief as no construction work is planned for the long weekend. “Rehabilitation and construction work on the N3 toll route near Villiers and between Nottingham Road and Howick have ceased for the duration of the long weekend to allow for unrestricted traffic flow. Only essential maintenance work will be undertaken if required,” she said. Be cautious of adverse weather conditions and veld fires Parts of the N3 Toll Route are prone to experiencing adverse weather conditions which may include heavy mist, high winds and sudden cold spells.  Dry conditions are currently being experienced along most parts of Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal and this could lead to veld fires. Heyl cautioned drivers to remain fully alert at all times, keep their headlights on, reduce their speed and increase the following distance between their car and the car ahead. Safe travels. Daily News