Ncumisa Ndelu, spokesperson for the Department of Social Development in KwaZulu-Natal, said they had offered counselling to the grandmother. Social workers found that the 19-year-old girl is a Grade 11 pupil with a 13-month-old child. “Gogo was offered temporary removal from the environment, but she refused,” Ndelu said. “It was established that the 19-year-old has behavioural problems, but she will attend programmes and receive life skills on how to behave. “Her mother will also get support and parenting skills. The 13-month-old will not be removed from the home because the child is not dependent solely on the mother. “There is a grandmother and great-grandmother at the home. The child’s well-being is not dependent on the mother.” The matter will be back in court on October 11. Philile Blose, a  senior social worker at Kerr House, a hospice for women, said in each quarter of a year there tended to be a woman who was a victim of abuse by her child. Out of 25 women, two are victims of their own children. “Such victims are provided with shelter, food, clothing and advice on filing for a protection order. Counselling is also rendered. “They are further provided with information on safety tips and encouraged to have a positive support system, rather than being isolated from their networks,” Blose said. Sonya Rayne, director of LifeLine, said children’s needs and expectations were not being fulfilled, so they abused the one not fulfilling their demands. “We usually don’t get the abuser; we get the victim,” Rayne said. “The abuser doesn’t think they have a problem and shifts the blame.” Thandeka Masango, social worker at Family Marriage Society of South Africa, said the abuse sometimes started with the child smoking, getting hooked on drugs, stealing and then abusing parents for these needs. “It is usually boys, but girls are just as bad,” Masango said. “When girls have children, they leave the child with the mother to raise and that’s when they start seeing themselves as adults and start speaking rudely to their mothers. When the mother says she has had enough of raising her child’s children, that’s where another problem starts.” Daily News