The rising number of homeless and increasing rates of vagrancy and begging on the city’s streets has resulted in the municipality engaging various stakeholders to find a working solution to the problem. Businesses, NGOs and NPOs said the eThekwini municipality was not doing enough to contain the problem, and that it was hurting business and tourism. Last week, the groups met with Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, the chairwoman of the city’s safety and emergency services committee. Raymond Perrier, the director of the Dennis Hurley Centre, said the lack of funding for NGOs was making it difficult to control the situation. “The city is not doing enough to deal with homelessness, begging and drug addiction. We need rehab centres funded by the municipality. “They say they want to be the most caring city in the country, so they must start injecting funding to existing NGOs.” He said not all homeless people were drug addicts, and that was proved by a survey conducted over two years ago. Of the participants, about 30 to 40% were likely to be addicts, he said. The Umbilo Business Forum said eThekwini was not doing enough in its social development plan, which should be uplifting the lives of its citizens. Sikho Msomi, chairperson of the forum, said: “NGOs that are already doing the work lack funding. Failure to contain this has unwanted consequences for business and it also has the potential to chase investors away.” Last week, the Daily News reported that motorists and community members were unhappy with the failure by the authorities to deal with beggars, who were present at most of the city’s busiest intersections. Peer said the city had acknowledged that homelessness was a reality and unemployment, substance abuse and rapid urbanisation were some of the reasons for the influx of people from other provinces. Peer said the city was aware that NGOs, faith-based organisations and the business sector had done “tremendous work” in alleviating the plight of homeless people living on the streets and those living in shelters. “We are really appreciative of these efforts. As a city we have learnt great lessons over the years and are exploring more inclusive approaches to address this complex challenge. We are not blind to the fact that we have not done much to address this problem. “It was therefore critical to engage on this important matter with the stakeholders who attended this meeting in numbers, to put forward a strong and dynamic task force to address matters of homelessness in the city,” she said. Peer said the city had learnt how to regulate shelters for the homeless because the current “untenable” standards of shelters and law enforcement blindness further exposed and marginalised the homeless and the vulnerable. Daily News