DURBAN - THE South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA) has issued the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Accounting programmes with a level one rating after a review by the accountancy body’s Academic Review Committee (ARC). UKZN’s level one rating by SAICA means the university has met the body’s accreditation requirements for the undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in accounting, honours and postgraduate diploma in accounting (Certificate in the Theory of Accounting [CTA]), which led to chartered accountancy qualifications. Professor Mabutho Sibanda, the Dean and Head of the School of Accounting, Economics and Finance at UKZN, said they had increased the number of tutorials sessions, introduced motivational talks and encouraged students to use the services of educational psychologists at the institution. He said bilingual tutorials to accommodate second language speakers were introduced and bursaries, textbooks and funds were availed to students from disadvantaged backgrounds. “We are pleased that these interventions are bearing fruit especially when it comes to the improvement of the CTA throughput rates which have increased from 38 percent in 2016 to 49 percent in 2017. “Another improvement worthy to note is the rise in the number of students enrolling in the CTA programme which has increased from 248 in 2017 to 373 in 2018. Moreover, UKZN students excelled in the January and June 2018 sitting of the Initial Test of Competence which proves that we are headed in the right direction and can be proud of the work we are doing as a School,” he said. SAICA’s senior executive for professional development, Mandi Olivier, said there had been many positive developments achieved by the university since the last monitoring visit. The committee also commended the university’s decision to extend the retirement age to 65 from 60, in a bid to retain key staff. “The impact of the new and substantive management on the programme is already visible with initiatives to improve the quality and throughputs of the programme,” said Olivier. Daily News