Judge Siraj Desai on Friday gave the State 24 months to pass legislation that would recognise Muslim marriages. His ruling also ordered the president and the departments of Justice and Home Affairs to enact legislation in support of it. If they fail to do so in the next two years, the provisions of the Divorce Act will apply to protect muslim women. The official judgment stated: “It is declared that a union validly concluded as a marriage in terms of Sharia Law and which subsists at the time this order becomes operative (even after its dissolution in terms of the Divorce Act 79 of 1979 and all the provisions of that Act) shall be applicable. The provisions of section 7(3) shall apply to such a union regardless of when it was concluded.” Some members of the Muslim community are doubting the effectiveness of the legislation. “Can the government do in two years what it has not been able to do in 23?” asked Rumana Mahomed, an attorney specialising in Muslim marriage and divorce law. Mahomed also expressed concern for women: “What happens to the women? Are they constricted to not getting any support? Do they have to wait two years to get support and relief?” If the husband has more than one spouse, the court ordered that it would take into consideration all relevant factors and make equitable orders that it deemed just. The Department of Home Affairs has to publish the judgment while the Justice Department has to put in place processes and policy regulations. Seehaam Samaai, director of the Women’s Legal Centre and attorney for the Women’s Legal Centre Trust, previously told Independent Online (IOL) that the State failed to “protect, promote, and respect rights of Muslim women”, and that Sharia law ensured the maintenance of Muslim women, but lacked the ability to enforce it. Law officials have to ensure they are well-versed in Islamic law beforehand, asserts one activist. The legal ramifications for not registering with the court is not understood by some Muslims. Shayk Rafeek Hassen, an Islamic community leader and registered marriage officer, previously told IOL that some Indians only got married traditionally - not understanding the legal consequences. Dr Faisal Suliman, chairman of the South African Muslim Network, felt it was important legislation because it allowed the Muslim community “to enjoy the rights and benefits of a formal marriage bill”. Suliman also expressed concern at whether the marriage bill would be enforceable, asserting it would be contingent upon whether it was adopted by the Muslim community. “If we have a law that is unacceptable, it simply will not work,” he said. Daily News