He said they were already struggling with the fight against cigarettes and dagga, which are considered gateway drugs to narcotic abuse. Gani said children would use this as an opportunity to come to school intoxicated. “How do you deal with it at school? It is going to open up a multitude of problems. This is particularly difficult as pupils older than 18 could come to school reeking of dagga,” he said. Some people have welcomed last week’s ruling, while others are against it. Matakanye Matakanya, the general secretary of the National Association of School Governing Bodies, said they did not support the ruling and wished more research could have been done on the matter. He argued that schools were left in the lurch because they did not know how to deal with the possible implications of the ruling. Matakanya said that even before the ruling, children still brought dagga to school. “The discipline is gone in schools,” he said. He said they would discuss the matter with the Department of Education. Kwazi Mthethwa, the provincial department spokesperson, said it would not tolerate any drugs at schools. He said Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana had launched an anti-drug abuse campaign last month, and the ruling had changed nothing. “We are still against dagga smoking,” Mthethwa said. The Daily News’s sister paper, the Cape Argus, reported today that DrAbdul Kader Domingo, of the SA Society of Psychiatrists, said one in nine people would become addicted to dagga. That number increases to one in six for teenagers. He said exposure to the drug could lead to disturbances in brain maturation, and delevopment of intelligence and memory. Domingo said research showed 9% of individuals who experimented with cannabis would become addicted. “Cannabis use during adolescence may cause lasting cognitive deficits, even after sustained abstinence.” Domingo referred to a 2016 SA Community Epidemiology Network on Drug Use report that concluded that cannabis was the most common primary substance of abuse for people younger than 20 at treatment facilities countrywide, except for Free State, Northern Cape and North West. Daily News