Four cars which were used to transport staff to stations were also torched. Zama Nomnganga, Prasa KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson, said the incident followed the assault of a female train driver in KwaDukuza on Thursday. She had since been discharged. Nomnganga said damage to the property was valued at more than R8million. “Prasa officials, security structures including the police and the provincial Department of Transport, Community Safety and Liaison held a meeting today (yesterday) to discuss a strategy to safeguard Prasa property and staff members. This is anarchy and assaulting our staff members will not be tolerated,” Nomnganga said. He added that all train operations in the province have been suspended until further notice. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said preliminary investigations into the matter revealed that commuters went on a rampage after experiencing train delays. “On Thursday, a female train driver was attacked in KwaDukuza by commuters. We condemn the incidents and police will work around the clock to ensure that all those responsible for the damage to government property and the attack on a train driver will be brought to book,” Kaunda said. He said Prasa experienced challenges with the rolling stock which resulted in delays, and that government viewed both the uMlazi and KwaDukuza incidents as “pure acts of criminality”. “No amount of anger can warrant damage to property whether public or private. As government, we have taken a decision that people who embark on illegal public protests and damage property must be charged criminally and be litigated individually,” he said. Provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulazi Zwane said a case of public violence was opened at uMlazi police station after a railway building, a train and four cars were vandalised and set alight. No arrests have been made. The United National Transport Union (Untu) threatened court action to force Prasa and the government to protect its employees. Steve Harris, Untu general secretary, said the union had no alternative after the horrific violent incidents. “Untu has reached a point where the union has to admit that the situation on our commuter trains has reached such a state that the government and Prasa are blatantly ignoring one of our fundamental constitutional rights, the right to life, set out in our Bill of Rights, when you enter the premises of Prasa’s stations across the country,” Harris said. The police had lost the battle to keep commuters and Prasa employees safe, he said. “Untu leadership will meet with its legal team to bring the urgent court application as soon as possible,” Harris said. Daily News