 Once the property is registered at the deeds office, can a new owner who takes over an existing tenancy, ask the tenant to pay an additional amount for parking? The tenant’s rental agreement with the previous owner included charges for the use of the parking bay. Can a tenant refuse the installation of a prepaid electricity meter that was part of the agreement with the previous owner? * The new landlord steps into the shoes of the previous landlord without any change to the lease. * The tenant must abide by all the terms and conditions of the lease that existed with the previous landlord. * Should the new landlord intend to increase the security deposit, a notice must be given to the tenant in terms of a written clause in the lease that allows for such an increase. * The new landlord cannot present a new lease to the tenant or, in the case of an oral lease, require the tenant to sign a written lease. * Similarly, where a lease was suspended, the tenant is not legally obliged to enter into a new lease. * The tenant must abide by all the terms and conditions of the lease that existed prior to its suspension. * If the tenant agreed with the previous landlord that he or she would be responsible for internal maintenance, this obligation will continue. * The lease ends when the lease period is over or when the new landlord and the tenant mutually agree to end the lease or the landlord or tenant has legal basis to terminate the lease. In other words, the sale of the property does not affect an existing lease, with the new owner/landlord not acquiring any right or obligation greater or less than the previous landlord. The tenant is bound by the lease too, and must perform whatever is required, including all future and unfulfilled past obligations (Genna-Wae Properties (Pty) Ltd v Medio-Tronics (Natal) (Pty) Ltd 1995 (2) SA 926 (A)). The new landlord cannot change the agreement unilaterally. He or she is bound by the agreement entered into by the tenant and his/her previous landlord. In our law, the new landlord is said to step into the shoes of the previous landlord. The terms of the previous agreement continue uninterrupted, as long as the tenant does not agree to any change. Rental, for example, must be paid in full, on time, at the place agreed to.  Does the change of ownership affect a suspended lease? It should not cause a problem if the tenant and previous landlord agreed to a temporary arrangement. The landlord may have intended to carry out necessary repairs and renovations and, by agreement, the tenant temporarily vacated the dwelling. The tenant moves back to the dwelling under the same terms and conditions and resumes payment of rental. The new owner inherits the suspended lease, and, all rights, duties and responsibilities are reinstated. The new landlord cannot prevent the tenant from moving back or increase the rental and security deposit. If there is provision in the lease for an increase in the rental or security deposit, the tenant cannot refuse. The landlord cannot present a new lease to the tenant or, in the case of an oral lease, require the tenant to sign a written lease. If a lease was suspended, the tenant is not legally obliged to enter into a new lease. The new owner is, therefore, bound by the lease and will continue with the rights and obligations of the previous owner as if there were no change in terms of the “huur gaat voor koop” rule (hire comes before a sale). Chief Justice Michael Corbett in the Genna-Wae Properties case confirms this principle and holds the tenant or lessee liable to the lease as well. A sale of the property does not end the lease with the new owner being substituted for the original owner and the latter falls out of the picture. “The new owner acquires all the rights of the original lessor under the lease.” At the same time the new owner is obliged to recognise the lessee and to permit him to continue to occupy the leased premises in terms of the lease, provided that he (the lessee) continues to pay the rent and otherwise observe his obligations under the lease. It is advisable for a prospective landlord to investigate an existing lease. If there is an oral agreement, the prospective owner must establish the terms and conditions from the seller and the tenant. Nothing prevents parties varying the lease conditions by mutually agreeing to certain changes. What could be particularly problematic for the new owner is the security deposit refunded to the tenant by the previous owner. The new owner becomes responsible for the refund of the security deposit paid by the tenant to the previous owner even though this wasn’t paid to the new owner, who may be in a vulnerable position should there be damage or rental arrear at the end of the lease term. Dr Sayed Iqbal Mohamed is the chairpoerson of the Organisation of Civic Rights and deputy chairperson of the KZN Rental Housing Tribunal. For advice contact Pretty Gumede or Loshni Naidoo on 031 304 6451 / civicrights@ocr.org.za  Daily News