The woman went on trial with her mother, who died of natural causes in prison earlier this year. The women cannot be named because in addition to the murder, the toddler’s mother was convicted of sexual assault against the child’s two older siblings. According to the State’s case, the mother slapped and pushed BabyX (not her real name, for the purposes of protecting her younger siblings) to the floor on November 17, 2014. The abuse continued throughout the next day, at the hands of the grandmother. BabyX was thrown to the floor and slapped across her mouth so badly that she started to bleed from the nose and mouth. The child was tied to the bed and the following day, on November 19, the grandmother burnt the child on the vagina with a cigarette and pinched her ears. Later that night, the child died. The mother’s defence had argued that a head injury she suffered in a 2001 accident, a drug problem and her history of epilepsy meant she had diminished capacity. She said her mother had instructed her to tie BabyX to the bed so that she could not play with her private parts after she had put chilli powder in the child’s nappy. She claimed she had followed her mother’s instructions as she was afraid of being assaulted by her. She denied having anything to do with the child’s death. She said she loved BabyX and accused her mother of hating the child because she messed the floor and because her father was coloured. One of the siblings testified that BabyX was hit by their mother with a high-heeled shoe, and as she was crying their grandmother woke up and hit her with a flat shoe across her face. All the experts who assessed BabyX’s mother agreed that she had a mild intellectual disability reflected in an IQ of 60, and deficits in her cognitive functions. She was placed as functioning in the age range of 16-17 years, which does not exclude capacity on age- related legal incapacity. Judge Mohini Moodley said the most significant injuries inflicted on BabyX were on her face and head, which resulted in swelling and excessive bleeding. However, her mother had ignored the clearly-visible injuries and instructed the children to mop up the blood and proceeded to get dressed to go to town. Senior state advocate Cheryl Naidu had submitted that the cause of death was blunt head trauma following fatal child abuse, and suggested that the mother be found guilty of murder. Judge Moodley said BabyX’s mother and grandmother had acted in common purpose. “There is little doubt that (the mother’s) failure to obtain medical treatment was intentional. She was aware of her victim - a 3-year-old, slight build, physically compromised and vulnerable because of her previous beatings, and malnourished, which her mother was party to. “In our view, even to a child of 16, a vicious assault with a pointed instrument on a little child’s head would have inculcated an awareness or realisation that serious consequences, including death, would follow upon that act,” Judge Moodley said. Sentencing is expected next week. Daily News