Durban - The masterminds behind the murder of Bluff money lender Narend Anandrai have been handed life sentences in the Durban High Court on Thursday. Former policeman Dhanaseelan Manickam, 47, and businessman Rajendran “Trevor” Chetty, 48, were sentenced by Judge Peter John Olsen. The accused were implicated after self-confessed hitman Gregory Pillay pleaded guilty to shooting Anandrai, who was seated in his Mercedes-Benz sports car in Havenside, Chatsworth, on March 18, 2014.  Pillay was sentenced that year to 18 years’ imprisonment. The car burst into flames after hitting a wall. Three of the five people accused of conspiring to murder Anandrai have been acquitted. Veronica Rathilal, 48, Chatsworth attorney Jayshree Baijnath, 43, and businesswoman Shana Mangroo, 48, were each acquitted after Olsen found there was not enough evidence to convict them. Olsen found that Pillay could not accurately describe Baijnath, Mangroo and Rathilal and an identity parade should have been held instead of relying solely on his evidence. He took into account that Pillay was addicted to heroine and consumed the substance before and after the incident; concluding that his memory could have been distorted. He found Chetty and Manickam to have premeditated the murder and acted in furtherance of a common purpose. On Wednesday, it was a bitter-sweet end for two women acquitted of the murder. Reginald and Ghooruhoo were earlier this year acquitted of all charges. Outside court, Baijnath said she was relieved to have been acquitted, but felt that the judgment was unfair. She said they would launch an appeal on behalf of Chetty and Manickam. Mangroo, who is related to Anandrai, said being accused of his murder had affected her business. She said it would have been ideal if they were all acquitted. “It wasn’t easy, especially since he was related to me and I too lost a loved one,” she said. Anandrai died after being shot. The car he was in hit a wall and burst into flames. In his confession, Pillay claimed he was paid R20000 for the hit and promised a further R100000. Anandrai’s wife Jayshree Pillay said all those accused of his murder should have been convicted. A relative of Pillay, who would not be named, said the family feared for their safety. Anandrai’s sister Mala Singh said she was happy justice had been served and only hoped it was served on the right people. The State alleged that the motive for the killing was money owed by Rathilal, Baijnath and Mangroo to Anandrai, amounting to about R1million. In his judgment, Judge Olsen said the State had failed to prove that the women owed any money to Anandrai, or that they conspired to kill him. “There is no evidence that the deceased was lured by accused 7 (Baijnath) to her house where he was killed.” During the trial, it emerged that Manickam, Chetty and his son picked up Pillay, gave him a gun and told him about the murder to be committed. Judge Olsen said he exercised caution when considering Pillay’s evidence as he was a single witness. While Pillay came across as an honest witness, not all his testimony could be regarded as sufficient for the State’s case. Daily News