The German co-founder of the proposed R8billion project will fly into Durban soon in an effort to resurrect the development, which will mean hundreds of jobs will be created. If all goes to plan, it will become the first renewable energy hub in the country. Although the project stalled, the overseas investors, who will be funding 75% of the development, have remained keen, provided that the support of the government was secured. “We note with interest that, with the election of President Cyril Ramaphosa and the takeover of the Energy Department by Jeff Radebe, renewable energy is back on the agenda of South African policy,” said Berlin-based Konrad Hochhold, managing director of IKD-International Know-how Transfer and Business Development. “It has also become clear to local and international investors that Jeff Radebe has launched another renewable energy investment round and that the South African government is working on a sustainable strategy for securing the country’s energy supply,” Hochhold said. The government recently gazetted its new integrated resource plan, outlining the country’s electricity plans and showing a move to renewable energy. Several licences have already been issued to renewable energy providers and Hochhold felt there was thus an urgent need to kickstart the KZN project. Renewable energy produced at the various businesses based in the proposed hub would be sold to Eskom and directly to factories of big corporations. Thomas Nicholson, representing the local group and the driving force behind the project, said the timing for the resurrection of the RED hub could not have been better. As well as holding meetings with key decision-makers during his visit, Hochhold would meet two local frontrunners prepared to put up the money required to transfer the project into 100% South African ownership. One of the pre-conditions the international investors wanted before ploughing in their funds was a commitment from a local, black-empowered development company. Now, there are two vying for the opportunity. Nicholson said one had a national footprint, and the other was provincial. The hub, which would include hybrid renewable energy power generation, water, agriculture and food projects, and investments in technology, education, training and academic education, had its origins in the Durban COP17 climate change conference in 2011, when it was decided that the RED hub should become a legacy project. The project depends on clinching a 20-year power purchase agreement on the price of produced electricity to ensure the sustainable operation of the various installations. This assurance would have to come from the National Treasury. The lack of an agreement and search for suitable land delayed the project for three years, but Nicholson said land had since been identified north of Ballito on the old Imbonini Industrial Park, already home to renewable energy businesses. Memorandums of agreement had been signed with eThekwini Municipality, iLembe District Municipality and the KZN government in 2012 to guide engagement among the role players, and these would have to be renewed. Hochhold hoped a decision could be made during his visit. A provincial government source, who would not be named, confirmed that Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs MEC Sihle Zikalala had agreed that the department, including Trade and Investment KZN, would lead the engagements with the project promoters. Hochhold believed the project could start in June next year. Daily News