Now the man he allegedly paid to do so has turned on him and submitted an affidavit to the department, apparently because of the prinicipal’s “dictatorship-style of management”. Seelan Pillay, the former chairman of the SGB, claims he accepted a bribe of R20000 to ensure the principal got the post in 2017. The principal cannot be named because criminal charges have not been laid against him yet. Another SGB member, who would not be named, apparently stated in an affidavit that she was asked by the principal to sign blank cheques. Pillay said the principal, whom he knew before the interview, had convinced him that the money was not a bribe but a blessing “from one Christian to another”. “He told me he has a vested interest in the community and that he would really like to be appointed as the principal. He told me that I should score him the highest to enable him to have a higher score. He also told me to score the other candidates lower. I did not agree, but he handed me a brown envelope. He asked me to check the contents once he left,” said Pillay. “I opened the envelope and I found inside a bundle of R200 notes. I counted them and it amounted to R20 000,” he said. “He told me that this was a blessing from one Christian to the next. He said irrespective of the outcome of the interview, he was led to bless me. He told me to consider the future of the school. He told me that should he get the job as principal, he would work with my pastor and assist him with all his church projects. I was very uncomfortable, but agreed to see how I could influence the decision,” he said. Pillay said his conscience later got the better of him when the principal did not uphold his promise of bettering the community or the school. Pillay said he regretted his actions, but “had to wait” for his child to finish Grade 12 at the school before coming forward. “I regret my actions. I know what I did was not right. I believed he was blessing me. I was afraid and ashamed to come forward. I waited for my term on the SGB to end. I felt guilty and contacted the department. I could not watch him run the school into the ground any longer,” said Pillay. Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the department was aware of the governance issues at the school. He said the allegations were reported to the department and the matter was being investigated internally. “Our officials are on a fact-finding mission and are verifying the allegations of poor governance. We operate on facts, not on feelings. We are gathering information,” he said. Daily News