But few knew the home was a world of torment for BabyX, who was carried out of it in a tiny body bag after enduring continuous torture and abuse at the hands of her mother and grandmother. The Daily News visited the pink house, nestled between two double-storey homes, which has been vacant since that fateful day in November 2014. An old double bed lay by the kitchen door, which had a burglar guard. The door had not been opened in a while. At the back of the house, there were signs of a life once lived, with shoes still outside and an old cot near a broken bedroom window. BabyX was one of three children (she was not named to protect the identities of her siblings, who were also abused) and had been in the foster care of her grandmother while enduring abuse, starvation and torture. The grandmother died in custody during the trial in April this year, while the toddler’s mother was yesterday found guilty of her murder in the Durban High Court. A man who grew up with BabyX’s grandmother called for the mother to be handed the maximum sentence. Community activist Kem Inderjith said a life sentence was only appropriate for the mother. “I feel sad that the grandmother died because in a way she escaped justice.” He said BabyX’s death should be viewed as a lesson by other communities. “The community of Havenside, as well as surrounding ones, played an integral part in making sure that the mother and grandmother did not get bail,” he said. Inderjith said the community had reported the toddler’s abuse to the authorities, but nothing had been done. “Other communities who see things like this happening to children should make a concerted effort in contacting the relevant authorities to help abused children.” His wife, Vishali, said as a mother she felt torn inside by what had happened to Baby X. “I have children as well and while Baby X was not my own child, I felt her pain.” Brandon Pillay, a former councillor of Havenside, said he was relieved at the verdict because he had feared the toddler’s mother would be set free after pinning the blame for the child’s death on the grandmother. “I’m pleased in the justice system for giving this verdict because it means that her death was not in vain.” Jackie Branfield, of children’s rights advocacy group Bobbi Bear, also welcomed the verdict. Childline’s Adeshni Naicker applauded the justice system for the guilty verdict. “Sadly, it doesn’t bring back BabyX, but it sends out a strong message to people, especially caregivers, who believe corporal punishment is not abuse. “KZN has lost too many children recently and we cannot just stand by and watch while the perpetrators find loopholes in the system. I’m confident that this verdict is going to set a precedent, while also serving as a deterrent to many.” Daily News