“They must ask someone they trust to look after them. They must be told not to allow any strangers to enter their property even if the stranger says he or she was asked by their parents to fetch something from the house,” said provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane. Recently, Durban was shocked by the discovery of 9-year-old Miguel Louw’s body in Phoenix. He went missing in July. This month, the Daily News reported on the rape of two children, allegedly by a truck driver, in a community near Camperdown. A 10-year-old boy was walking to the shop when he was allegedly approached by the truck driver and raped, and shortly afterwards an 8-year-old girl was raped apparently by the same man when she and another child were playing alone in a house. Zwane said children must be told not to get into cars with strangers, adding that police must be notified immediately of a child’s disappearance. “Children must always have contact numbers for their parents so if they encounter any problems, they can immediately call them,” he said. KwaZulu-Natal schools close on Friday for a week and Childline KZN has encouraged parents going on holiday with their children to ensure that they had a list of contact details on them. “Younger children can have identity bracelets. Children need to be thoroughly briefed before the holiday. It is really easy for children to get distracted, especially while on tours, in parks and in shopping malls,” said Childline KZN operations manager Adeshni Naicker. “They need to be wary of all assistants in public places and areas of interest and taught not to trust anybody enough to go off with them to be shown something exciting,” she said. Naicker said child harnesses could be used for young children and even for older ones if they had a tendency to wander off. “Your child can even be given a whistle to use if they at any time feel threatened. As soon as you arrive at a mall or park, always point out the help and information counters to your children,” she said. Naicker said parents who were working during the holidays and were forced to leave their children home alone, must make sure that emergency numbers were prominently displayed. They should also make an arrangement with a neighbour, who was usually home, so that they could be contacted first in an emergency. “This works well, as your neighbour is just a few minutes away. If you have a landline then ensure that you have caller identity and instruct your child to answer the call only if they recognise the number as being yours, your spouse’s or that of close relatives. If your child is old enough to have a cellphone, exercise the same rules.” She said boredom could lead to a child going outside to explore, and that strict rules should be enforced according to the child’s age and level of responsibility. Internet access should also be limited, Naicker said. She stressed that under no circumstances should children who are alone at home, leave the house without prior consultation with their parents. Marshal Security’s Kyle van Reenen said it was important for parents to teach their children how to use panic buttons and how to contact the security provider in an emergency. Daily News