The report, recently presented to the National Health Council, has revealed that KZN has the biggest backlog of cancer patients awaiting treatment in the country. The council members are appointed by the health minister, and they play an advisory role. The report - a follow-up to the National Cancer Strategic Framework and National Audit of 2017, compiled by health facility managers countrywide - shows statistics as at the end of December 2017 and highlights non-functional equipment and inadequate staffing at cancer treatment centres. The Investment Case Report also outlines the demand for radiation oncology services, current supply constraints, the cost burden, and compromise on care as a result of delayed treatment, the gaps in human resource and equipment capabilities, and recommendations for financing. According to the report, which was leaked to the Daily News, about 8000 cancer patients are waiting for treatment at the province’s three leading oncology hospitals. The worst by far is Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH), where there is a backlog of 6012 patients. It is followed by Addington with 1932 patients and 132 at Pietermaritzburg’s Grey’s Hospital. The report revealed that KZN waiting times for radiation oncology exceeded the recommended waiting period of six to eight weeks. The waiting time at IALCH is 24 to 26 weeks for radical treatment and 8 to 12 weeks for gynaecology- and prostate-related cancer treatment. During the SA Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) hearing into the oncology crisis, Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo reportedly said the waiting period was up to 12 months. In February, the Daily News reported that IALCH received a boost when the health department announced that three oncologists would provide their services full-time. The department said it had struck a deal with the Witwatersrand University Health Consortium to have the services of oncologists five days a week, eight hours a day. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson on health, said: “In June last year, the SAHRC found MEC Dhlomo guilty of violating the rights of KZN’s cancer patients to adequate treatment. “Despite numerous recommendations by the SAHRC since then, accompanied by ongoing reassurances by both the MEC and his department that the situation has improved, it appears that very little has changed.” Keeka said in spite of the “huge backlog”, there were only two full-time oncologists in the eThekwini region. “Other oncologists are on temporary contracts following a recommendation by the SAHRC to enter into public-private partnerships. The DA is of the view that these temporary contracts do not completely satisfy the directive of the SAHRC,” he said. The KZN Health Department accused the Daily News of a campaign “to present a skewed and exaggerated picture” aimed at undermining efforts to restore cancer treatment services. It said contrary to the misleading impression of a “collapse in cancer treatment services” that has been created, the department had always been able to provide chemotherapy and perform surgical procedures on patients whose cancer was detected early. It said it had “numerous strategies” to resolve challenges previously experienced in providing oncology services. “The department has done a lot to restore oncology services in the province, while accelerating programmes to upscale the prevention, screening, testing and early detection of cancer,” it said. Measures which have reduced backlogs include the partnership with Wits Health Consortium; the provision of oncology services at Grey’s Hospital, and in northern KZN through the Joint Medical Holdings (JMH) Group; and the recruitment radiotherapists. Daily News