The city confirmed that Phungula’s suspension was effective from Tuesday. At least two sources said his suspension was related to the two recordings of telephone conversations between two city employees - a senior official and his subordinate - that were leaked to the media early this month. “He is under investigation for calling South Africans of Indian descent ‘corrupt c*****s’. He is also being investigated for trying to manipulate a departmental disciplinary hearing with the aim to have a suspended senior employee reinstated. Information was later brought forward that he had submitted fraudulent information on his CV when he applied for the job, and that too is under investigation,” said a source. In one of the recordings, the senior official is heard referring to “corrupt c*****s” and “c*****s” five times, while explaining a strategy to retain the employee facing disciplinary action. The man talks of being “politically in tune” and admits that while he was highly qualified, politics played a role in his appointment. He then refers to politicians as being “savages” and “uneducated”. He says they need guidance from “the appointees”. In the second recording the official is heard arguing with his subordinate, who does not appear keen to drop a senior advocate appointed to chair the disciplinary hearing of Zandile Sithole, the city’s suspended supply chain management deputy head. Sithole was suspended on allegations of tender irregularities. Her hearing in March was interrupted by men claiming to be defenders of radical economic transformation. The official is heard telling his colleague: “All politicians want this mama (Sithole) badly. I won’t lie to you on that. Right from the mayor, the whole Exco et al, I’m under severe pressure regarding that mama’s issue.” He says there was a political agreement that the disciplinary hearing would be disrupted. He is heard plotting to remove the senior legal counsel - appointed with the blessing of deputy city manager of finance Krish Kumar - to handle Sithole’s hearing. He continues pestering his colleague to appoint junior lawyers to handle the hearing. Acting head of communications Mandla Nsele said Phungula’s suspension would be effective until the investigation was finalised. Nsele said: “There are no charges yet. The outcome of the investigation will determine the process that will be followed towards the finalisation of the matter.” He confirmed that the alleged fraudulent documents submitted by Phungula were part of the investigation, and he could not comment. Phungula said: “I’m avoiding commenting on this in the media. It’s common cause that on matters like this you wait for an appropriate time and platform to comment.” Daily News