Some SPCA branches have faced difficult times in supplying food for the animals, while others have recovered well. Michelle Hannan of eManzimtoti SPCA said there was constant pressure on the food supply for the animals, and they generally struggled through the year. “Sometimes we have two to five days’ worth of stock for the animals. We’ve turned to cooking food for strays to try to fatten them up because they come here terribly skinny. “We also ask for donations such as cabbage, chicken skins, livers, hearts and other food,” said Hannan. “This is breeding season, so we will need kitten and puppy food too,” she said. Tanya Fleischer, Durban and Coast SPCA marketing manager, said it is managing better now in comparison with how it started the year. “We did a great deal of campaigning and that helped a lot,” she said. Brigitte Ferguson, Kloof and Highway SPCA marketing and fundraising manager, said with the number of animals being admitted monthly increasing, so do the needs to fund the animals’ care and feed them. “On average, we admit more than 1000 animals per month who need to be fed twice daily while in our care. “This excludes puppies and kittens, who require special food, and we also have clinic patients who require special diets for their medical conditions. “The Kloof and Highway SPCA are always grateful to our supporters who help us continue feeding the animals in our care through their donations and commitment to our cause,” Ferguson said. Scott Kvalsvig, lieutenant of the management committee at the Lower South Coast SPCA, said the police are investigating the theft, but no fingerprints were found. The SPCA generators were also recently stolen. Kvalsvig said the perpetrators had gained access to the garage by breaking the locks, and had removed all the food. “We are desperately looking for dog and cat food, especially soft food,” he said. Kvalsvig said they currently feed 160 animals and the community has been very generous by helping with donations. “We are thankful for the community support so far and we are hoping for continued generosity,” he said. Those willing to assist with pet food can drop it off at the premises or contact Dalene Erasmus at 0728785721. Daily News