Just one point separated the teams. The National High School Quiz was hosted in partnership with The Daily News, The Star, Cape Argus, Pretoria News and the IIE’s Varsity College. Eight teams of four from the four regions faced off and had 30 seconds to answer each of 10 questions in five categories: politics, sport, current affairs, business, and entertainment. Midland High School were runners-up in their regional competition, while Eden College came first in the The Daily News High School Quiz. A surprised Ashley Nyadongo from Midland said he was elated they had emerged as the top team. He said they had put in lots of work and helped each other. Another team member, Daniel Govender, said the competition had been “a real eye-opener” for him because it had made him aware of events. The team’s coach, Ebenezer Abebrese Danso, said his pupils’ attitudes had changed dramatically because of the competition. “Previously, they had to be forced to read but now they’re doing it voluntarily and even aside from this preparation they go to class and I’ll find them doing their work because they’ve cultivated the habit of constantly reading,” he said. The team took home R20000 for their school; each pupil and their coach pocketed R5000; they were awarded trophies and medals; and they received an Ace IT study pack per student with Ace IT backpacks. Eden College coach Debbi Duminy said her team learnt a lot from the competition. “On the way here, they were talking about politics and business and they now perhaps have an interest in those matters, so it’s been amazing,” she said. Eden College received R10000 for their school and each team member and the coach received R2500. Congratulating Eden College on their success, Daily News acting editor Zoubair Ayoob said he was thrilled with the number of entries in the competition and the spirit and commitment displayed by the teams. “With the continued support of the IIE’s Varsity College, we look forward to further extending the reach of the competition next year. “With poor literacy rates in the country, it is important for schools to join initiatives which promote reading.” The IIE’s Varsity College Sandton campus principal André Lubbe said: “The one thing that this competition has done is focus the pupils’ attention on current affairs.” He encouraged the pupils to continue reading newspapers daily. Daily News