This formed part of talks among Metro Police heads from all over South Africa who converged at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Convention Centre in Durban recently. Mchunu said that the reason behind the possible merger was so that there could be one central command, accountable to one minister. He added that, currently, Metro Police officers fell under three departments - Transport; Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs, and the SAPS, which governs how they conduct their activities under the SAPS Act. Mchunu said that these merger discussions had been held over a period of four years and was one of the issues discussed again yesterday. He added that they would make their views known to the secretariat from the Ministry of Police today. Metro Police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said the gathering took place every four months and at various metropolitan areas, including Johannesburg, Ekurhuleni and eThekwini. Sewpersad added that the eThekwini Municipality was the first to have such a police force in the country. Mary de Haas, a peace monitor, poured cold water on the idea of the two forces becoming one. “I don’t think it is a good idea. We have a SAPS that is ineffective and needs to be cleaned up,” she said. “This is unlike metro police, which is not perfect, but is a better-run organisation.” Ranks She added that there were countries such as England that had various forces working under one overarching body. She felt there would also be other challenges, such as the merging of ranks. De Haas said the working relationship between the metro police and SAPS was not the best and the change of duties for some SAPS officers could be a problem. “Why should the SAPS be deployed to deal with parking tickets?” De Haas asked. She said the role of Metro Police was to back up the SAPS. Jakes Singh, chairperson of the Chatsworth Policing Forum, supported the merger. “There will be one common goal and they will have the same powers,” he said. Currently, arrests by Metro Police officers have to be processed at a SAPS police station. Daily News