Durban - Two security guards narrowly escaped death when an armed robber unleashed a hail of bullets on them in Phoenix on Wednesday night. KZN VIP Unit guards Sashen Govender, 33 and Zaheer Fareed, 24, were discharged from hospital on Thursday morning and said they were lucky to be alive. Their employer, Glen Naidoo, said the officers responded to a panic alarm in Lenfern, Phoenix. “The family were being held up by five men, one with a R5 rifle, bulletproof vest and thigh holster,” he said. Mehmood Mahomed, the home robbery family spokesperson, said the family of six were having supper. This included the homeowner's parents both aged 78, his wife and two sons aged 17 and 11. Mahomed said two men had climbed over the fence and got into the house via an unlocked kitchen door. Two other robbers entered the home and then pushed them into a room where they threatened to kill them if they did not hand over valuables. One of the sons was hit with the gun on his neck. Another robber was seated in a white Mercedes and one was standing at the front gate holding a rifle he said. “During the robbery shots rang off. The robbers inside panicked. The family thought they were going to be beaten or held hostage. Lucky for them the robbers took what they wanted and fled. They took the keys to a bakkie and BMW M3. They drove the bakkie out of the driveway and left it on the roadside. They were wearing gloves and balaclavas," Mahomed said. While this was going on Govender and Fareed had raced to the scene. As the officers entered the street, a robber who had been keeping watch stepped out of the darkness and fired a burst of bullets from his rifle at their bakkie. Govender, the passenger, said they heard what sounded like fireworks when they got to the scene. “It was like hailstones hitting the bakkie. Our ears were ringing from the sound. I was in the line of fire because he was next to my door. At first we thought he was a policeman. We greeted him,” he said. Govender had wounds from bullet fragments to his right leg, chest and hand. Fareed and cuts to his face, arms and neck, and stitches for a deep cut on his right shoulder. Their bakkie was riddled with bullets. Some had struck the bumper and radiator, bonnet, side panels, back tyre and windscreen. Naidoo said bullets had also come through the windscreen and struck the window frame behind the driver’s head. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said a case of attempted murder was opened at Phoenix police station. No arrests were made. Daily News