The launch was held in partnership with the South African Post Office, where recipients would be able to apply for the new cards. Lindiwe Kwele, chief operations officer at the Post Office, said the pilot project would also be launched at nine other sites around the country. In KwaZulu-Natal, the launch would take place in Manguzi on the Elephant Coast, 15km from the border with Mozambique. Other sites include Mount Fletcher in the Eastern Cape and Worcester in the Western Cape. Kwele said they chose the rural areas because they wanted to test it in places where there was little infrastructure to see how the roll-out works. She said the new card came with benefits and there would be “no funny deductions”. “The only deductions allowed will be those for funeral policies. The deductions would not exceed 10%,” said Kwele. Unwanted deductions have long been a major complaint. The benefits, said Kwele, would include one free withdrawal and a balance check every month. Kwele said they would start rolling out the cards in the next few weeks in a staggered approach and would notify residents when it was being launched in their area. “We hope to have a complete roll-out by the end of September,” she said. Mbizeni Ndlovu, Sassa KZN spokesperson, said they would visit people over 75 and those who were sickly to help them get their new cards. He said people could also go to Sassa offices for the cards. Further, he said, grant recipients would have the option of using their bank cards for transactions. “They will, however, have to fill in a form to have this done,” said Ndlovu. Sassa national spokesperson Kgomoco Diseko said they would monitor the number of people who swopped cards and would identify additional sites depending on the demand for card swopping. “The figure fluctuates from month to month, but we will issue new cards to whoever makes a new application and is approved,” Diseko said. He said the cards would have a chip and require users to have a PIN code. Diseko said the new card’s success would determine how they proceeded with the distribution of grants. According to Sassa, grants were distributed to more than 17 million people in 2017. KZN had the largest number of recipients with more than 3.8 million people. Second was the Eastern Cape with more than 2.75 million and Gauteng was third with about 2.58 million. According to research published by the South African Institute of Race Relations, more than a third of eThekwini households received social grants. In 2016, 36.6% of households received grants. This was a 9.2% decrease from 2015. Meanwhile, Sassa issued a statement yesterday warning grant recipients to be aware of fraudsters pretending to be officials from the organisation. “Sassa has received information that there are fraudsters pretending to be Sassa officials. These fraudsters are allegedly tricking grant beneficiaries into changing their cards and getting new cards from them. “Sassa would like to convey to beneficiaries not to give them their secret information (ie their card’s PIN code) because the changing of cards from old to new will take place in offices. Fraudsters use their information to effect illegal deductions from their social grants,” the statement read. The agency said it would not request information over the telephone, but through official communication. Daily News