The respective bodies have been reacting to a new rule announced by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) that affects female athletes with high testosterone levels - a move seen to be an attack on South African sports star Caster Semenya. The government and the public at large, via social media, have come out backing Semenya. Sport and Recreation spokesperson Mickey Modisane said the specialist team would comprise experts as recommended by Sascoc and ASA. “They have been entrusted to work closely in challenging the IAAF ruling. How exactly we go about this will be determined by this team,” he said. The IAAF regulation, which comes into effect on November 1, was announced late last week. It applies to athletes that compete in events from 400m to the mile, including 400m, hurdles races, 800m, 1,500m, one-mile races and combined events over the same distances (restricted events). The regulation affects fe- male athletes with hyperandrogenism, requiring any female athlete with levels of testosterone of five nanomils or above, and who are androgen-sensitive, to meet certain criteria in order to be eligible to compete in restricted events in an international competition. It also requires that they take medication to bring high testosterone levels down. Sports medicine specialist Dr Shuaib Manjra said the best that the government, Sascoc and ASA could do was offer Semenya legal support to take the matter up with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), the highest legal authority in sports, based in Switzerland. He said the research on which the IAAF’s decision was based was “weak” and should be challenged. “In 2012, the IAAF established regulations over high levels of testosterone in female athletes and this affected a few athletes, including Dutee Chand from India and Semenya. Dutee took the matter to CAS, which accepted that higher levels of testosterone in women gave those women an advantage over their competitors, but what that level of testosterone was could not be supplied at the time. “So CAS suspended the IAAF regulation and ordered the IAAF to come back with scientific proof to back up their regulation. The IAAF has now come back,” said Manjra. He said more studies were needed to determine the advantage percentage calculation, as well as to establish the negative health implications of forcing females to lower their testosterone levels. Daily News