Durban - Seeking help from Home Affairs Umgeni Road offices is a nightmare, according to Durban residents who complain of long queues and lack of urgency on the part of the department’s employees. Nomusa Mkhize, a Mayville resident told the Daily News that she had given up on getting an identity document for her daughter. “I’ve lost count of my visits to the Umgeni Road office. Monday was my recent visit and I was turned away and told to return the next day. That’s what I get every time I get there. What’s making it worse is the disgusting behaviour of the security guards and people who wake up early to be the first on the cue, only to sell their positions to those who arrive later. They are doing business and nothing is done about it,” said Mkhize. She alleged that the security guards charge a bribe of R200 to get a parking if you are driving a car. In a statement on Tuesday, Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba said he has developed a strategy to deal with the numerous problems facing his department. He said he had directed his department to prepare a comprehensive report and strategy on managing long queues at the department’s offices across the country. Gigaba has been inundated with calls from members of the public regarding time spent at offices for documents like smart ID cards, passports and certificates, the department had said in the statement. Daily News readers were however not sold on the contents of the statement, and they took to the Daily Facebook page to vent their anger and dissatisfaction with services at the department. Nazeera Bassa Asmal wrote: "Government parastatals are ridiculous! Students and tax paying citizens have to stand in extremely long cues from as early as 4am just to collect a number to be attended to. No proper parking facilities or seating arrangements, or they either offline. Another day off work to follow the same procedure when picking up these vital documents. In these times of modern technology, we surely are moving backwards!!" Alton Small wrote: "Its no rocket science, birth certificate done in hospitals, new ids done at any bank as per 1st plan and collection at post office of area where live in, thats what most of the people come here for, the rest of the stuff not mentioned that is what it should be doing" Rita Ramdas wrote: "My identity card was stolen in December I have been to home affairs in Prospecton and Umgeni rd 5 times and have been turned away" Daily News