Durban - The family of the man accused of the murder of Siam Lee came to support him in his bid to get bail on Tuesday at the Durban Magistrate's Court. About eight family members took the second row of the seats behind Siam's mother, Nan Lee, who was accompanied by three friends. They arrived shortly before court proceedings began. The still grieving mother of Siam sat quietly as the man accused of murdering her then burning her body entered the courtroom. Dressed in a blue and white check blazer, a white shirt, black pants and glasses, the man who cannot be named due to other allegations of rape against him kept turning to look at his relatives behind him before he took the witness. The state prosecutor Sureka Murumuthu revealed that the businessman has a string of fraud cases against him. The state also revealed that ten cases of fraud were opened against him and his company, Better Fuel. Six cases of fraud were opened in Johannesburg, some prior to his arrest for Siam's murder and four others in KwaZulu-Natal after his arrest. Defending himself, he said some of the cases were already thrown out of the Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg and described the others all opened by investors in his fuel online investment business after his arrest as a plot by the investigators in the murder case to have him denied bail. "I have never committed fraud in my life and I will never run away from justice. The same cases with the same allegations were thrown out of court. The cases opened while I was already in jail were opened to discredit me and paint a picture that I am a bad person. I have said to my attorneys, I am here in jail and have no means of addressing these cases and the complainants," he said. He said the cases were civil disputes that had nothing to do with his bail application in the Siam matter. It was also heard in court that he had also been served with a summons by his landlord where he operated his business in Germiston, Gauteng. The state alleged that he owed about R5 million when he vacated the premises without notice. An affidavit by his landlord, McSteal Property read in court said the plant produced toxic fumes and neighbours complained of a foul smell. He said the dispute between his company and his landlord was resolved in court and the agreement was to stop operations, which he did. "I did not vacate premises without notice. The landlord was there when I left. They were well aware of the decision to stop operation," he said. Siam's mother and friends seemed irritated by the dwelling on the issue of the fraud cases. Siam was reported to have been abducted outside 60 Margaret Maytom Road in Durban North. The house is owned by a Chinese national and was operated as a massage parlour. She was allegedly seen leaving with him in a black Mercedes Benz Vito/ V class with GP number plates. Her charred body was found on a New Hanover farm, in KwaZulu-Natal Midlands. Siam attended the private Crawford College North Coast and completed her matric in 2015. Daily News