The union was responding to Police Minister Bheki Cele’s revelation on Tuesday that the money was needed to fund these officers, who had not been promoted for several years. “We can only accept the minister’s revelation and encourage him to find the money, because we believe that the department has put itself in this situation. In the 2017/18 financial year, R2bn was withdrawn from the department’s budget without ­explanation, and returned to Treasury. We are therefore saying let them play around with figures to get the money as announced by the minister,” Nurse Mdletshe, Sapu’s provincial secretary told the Daily News. Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, ­national police spokesperson, could not provide the number of affected officers in KwaZulu-Natal, as a “comprehensive analysis” on the matter was being done. Richard Mamabolo, Police and Prisons Civil Rights’ Union (Popcru) spokesperson, said some of their members had not been promoted for up to 15 years. He said this was destroying the morale of policemen and women, who could not even afford decent houses. “Most of them find themselves in a grey area, as some don’t qualify for RDP houses. The current status is that most of our members remain in the lower ranks for up to 15 years. This could be one of the things that leads to some of them ending up getting involved in criminal activities. We, however, do not condone that, but government needs to play its part in compensating them adequately,” Mama­bolo said. According to The Mercury, the Daily News’s sister paper, Cele, who was briefing the police portfolio committee on Tuesday, said for any organisation to function effectively, its personnel needed to be dealt with fairly. The promotions would have to possibly be carried out over two financial years, if the required funds were ultimately found, Cele had said. He appealed for the government to push for better conditions for police officers, so that when they committed crimes, including being corrupt, “and we arrest them, they have no reason, no excuse to do wrong things”. Zakhele Mbhele, MP and DA spokesperson for the police, said ­career stagnation and slow rank progression had been a longstanding problem in the police sector, as it was in many areas of the public sector. Mbhele said that without a clear career path, or recognition of experience and performance excellence, combined with poor prospects for fair and proportionate remuneration increases, the possibility existed that disenfranchised police officers might perform at a minimum standard, at best, or underperform, at worst. He said the issue of criminality within the police ranks was a separate matter. “If the systems management is being done properly and police leadership is fit-for-purpose to run the systems, we should never have to worry about mistakenly promoting officers who have broken the law, because they would be found and flushed out long before,” he said. However, the lack of promotion in the service could be a contributing factor in some, or even many, cases, but “we must be clear it can never be justification for police officers to slip into corruption or criminality themselves”, said Mbhele. Daily News