Durban- Pemba, the Olive Ridley Turtle, seems to have left the sea mounts, hopefully with a full belly and has moved in a north-westerly direction.  She has travelled 120 kms since Monday at a speed of approximately 4.8 km/h. Pemba was the first Olive Ridley turtle to be satellite tagged in South Africa. The tracking device has revealed some interesting statistics on Pemba`s movements. Pemba is 375 nm (695 km) SSW of Cape Point.  She seems to be staying in the warm current.  The underwater sea mounts in the area are a good food source. Maryke Musson, curator of the Two Oceans Aquarium in Cape Town, explained that Pemba has been exploring the deep sea about 600 km South of Cape Town for the past 3 weeks.  The team is anxious to see which direction she will be heading to next. "She travelled at quite a remarkable speed down the Agulhas current and has since moved around in 2 very big loops just below the tail end of this mighty current.  She has managed to maintain a good pace by some days using the currents, but many days swimming against the currents,"Musson said. The water temperature is 20.7’C, not as warm as off KwaZulu-Natal, but still well within an acceptable range. The sea depth at her current location is around 4800 meters.  The South African Association for Marine Biological Research (SAAMBR) is tracking her movements for the next 16 to 24 months. Pemba has travelled over 4 626 km since her release in Mabibi at the iSimangaliso Wetland Park, on the KwaZulu Natal north coast on 8 March 2018. "That averages about 105 km/day. While in the Agulhas current she managed to travel 142 km/day – thanks to a fantastic ocean conveyer belt.  Since reaching the lower part of this current, she has reduced her speed and has covered about 74 km/day – which is still very impressive,"Musson added. Her shortest day over the last 3 weeks was 27 kilometres, with her longest day a 179 km.  While in the Agulhas current, Pemba travelled 224 km in one day. Musson said Pemba’s ‘loop’ has a radius of about 130 km, so she is still covering a lot of distance even in this area. She said they have received 219 satellite transmissions. There are Olive Ridley nesting sites along West Africa (Angola, Gabon), Brazil in South America, Mexico and California along the West Coast of America, and around Malaysia, Indonesia and India. There are also minor nesting beaches along Australia. According to SAAMBR website, Pemba was found floating in Table Bay Harbour in December 2014. She was admitted to the Two Oceans Aquarium turtle rehabilitation and release programme. Initial examination showed a fracture on the side of her carapace (shell), presumably from a boat propeller strike. Surgery was performed and the fracture was wired together. The fracture healed within a couple of months. Pemba was under constant veterinary supervision and was treated with antibiotics for the fracture to her shell as well as a suspected lung tear. Numerous attempts at removing large volumes of air from the turtle’s coelomic cavity proved unsuccessful.The trapped air caused her to be positively buoyant and she could therefore not dive down as a healthy turtle would to find food. Treatment continued at the Two Oceans Aquarium until September 2016, when the decision was made to move Pemba to uShaka Sea World in Durban for further treatment and future release. Once Pemba had regained her ability to dive, there was no looking back and the team began to plan her release. Daily News