The squatters had been evicted by a private security company after a legal battle 
from a property they illegally occupied in Heathcote Road, Mount Vernon. Nearly 100 squatters have now been housed inside the Impelsa Scout Hall since Thursday. The hall was built in 1957 and previously occupied by the Hillary scout group. This week, ward councillor Samantha Windvogel said she would meet city officials from the human settlements department to discuss the fate of the squatters. Windvogel, who recently underwent surgery, had to field calls from irate residents while she was recovering in hospital. Windvogel said the City and the squatters had been aware of the eviction for months. She said it was delayed several times because of the availability of the sheriffs. “The residents had asked for the hall to be renovated but the City said the building was unsuitable for use. It is alleged that an official had brought them to the hall. Electricity and water have been reconnected. There is only one portable toilet. What if the building collapses on them?” Windvogel asked. “These people knew in advance they were going to be evicted. They should have made some plans to get accommodation somewhere else. The hall is also private property. This is a built-up suburb that does not need this kind of problem. We will also find out the duration of the stay,” she added. Tozi Mthethwa, municipal spokesperson, said they are investigating the matter. The Daily News spoke to several squatters, who requested anonymity, at the hall yesterday. Many said they would never forget the treatment handed down to them by the private security company. Many of them lost some of their possessions when the eviction team threw them on to trucks. The municipality later intervened and transported their goods to the hall. Inside the hall beds were set out and people’s possessions were piled up all around. There was a hole in the roof. The ceiling boards were damaged. The squatters said the bathrooms were in good condition and they had water and lights. Two portable toilets were situated near the entrance to the hall. They said the location made it difficult for children to walk to schools they attended in Chatsworth and uMhlatuzana. A resident, who lived nearby, said they were shocked to see a truck offloading furniture and people without first consulting them. When residents contacted Bellair police station they were told the squatters would be there for one night. “I do sympathise with the squatters but my concern is whether this will be temporary accommodation and if there are health and safety hazards. Who will foot the electricity and water bill?” Windvogel asked. Residents reacted with anger on the  eThekwini Ward 65 Facebook group: Robbie van Alphen posted: “This is unacceptable. You can’t just move 160 mostly unemployed people into a residential area and a scout hall that cannot accommodate those said people. Why don’t they get moved to the city hall in Durban CBD. This is crazy.” Lindley Marise Blaine Paul said: “Who is going to pay lights and water? It’s time the community stands up. Enough is enough.” Daily News