The angry parents handed a memorandum of their grievances to the school principal as well as an official from the provincial Department of Education. They claimed children were selling cigarettes and dagga and recommended the school find a way to stop this. Other complaints included pupils gambling; absconding; teachers and pupils not being punctual; high teacher absenteeism; teachers using school hours to attend union meetings; the school dress code and etiquette; theft of school property; toilets not working; no stationery; and a shortage of teachers. The parents claimed two teachers who resigned were not replaced and that there was no English teacher for Grades 10 to 12 for two years. They asked the department to resolve this urgently because it was affecting grades.  The parents demanded that a security team be employed to prevent vandalism. Education department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said they condemned any act of vandalism and thuggery. “Schools should be centres of learning and teaching, not war zones. We call for calm and urge parents not to take the law into their own hands. The department will continue to work closely with all stakeholders to find lasting solutions,” Mthethwa said. Close to 50 parents, some former pupils of the school, accompanied the Daily News on an in loco inspection. The school hall’s toilets were not working and the backstage area was littered with building material. The 42 classrooms catered for 1380 pupils. Most of the classroom windows were broken, the light switches were damaged and the doors could not lock. The boys’ and girls’ toilets were in a putrid state. None of them worked. In the girl’s toilet, the change room was used to store old typewriters and printers, paint trays and broken Masonite boards. One of the classrooms was called “Four Corners”, after the movie about gang wars in Cape Town. All the windows were broken and graffiti covered the walls.  There were a few classes that were in good condition. A teacher, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said their frustrations had boiled over. She knew of a teacher who was leaving because the standard of education had dropped. The teacher had 35 years of experience and told the Daily News the profession faced a brain drain.  “I tell myself I am here for the 50 souls in my classroom every day. We should be teaching and not worrying about these issues. The condition of the toilets is inhumane. The girls have to hold themselves in for the day or squat at the back of the school to relieve themselves. How can you teach like this?” the teacher asked. The principal declined to speak to The Daily News as he was not authorised to do so. Because of the re-election of school governing bodies throughout the province, the school did not have one yet. Daily News