Durban - Famous South African DJ Black Coffee felt the brunt from Twitter after he performed in Tel Aviv. Tweeps, including political figures from South Africa, ripped Black Coffee to shreds for performing in Israel. South Africa’s isolation and the Academic & Cultural boycott are part of the reasons Apartheid capitulated to the call for freedom. It is morally & politically insensitive for DJ Black Coffee to just go on partying in Apartheid Israel, whilst it kills & oppresses innocent people. — Floyd Shivambu (@FloydShivambu) April 2, 2018  On Monday Black Coffee was the number one trend on Twitter and South Africans were were angry that a few hours before his performance, Israeli snipers shot and killed over 15 young unarmed Palestinians in the Gaza Strip, said Kwara Kekana, Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions against Israel in South Africa (BDS). “The human rights and Palestine solidarity organisation BDS South Africa joins fellow South Africans in expressing our disappointment in DJ Black Coffee's decision to, once again, perform in Tel Aviv in violation of the cultural boycott of Israel,” said Kekana. Following Tweeps disagreeing with Black Coffee’s decision to perform in Israel, he defended his decision by saying he went there “to feed my family”. Like everyone else I have rights and free will and no Black Coffee is not a political party...I work as an entertainer to feed my Family.To sum it up....I'll take a bullet for my Family. — #PIECESOFME (@RealBlackCoffee) April 2, 2018  He said Black Coffee’s performance in increasingly anti-African, with Israel’s Minister of Culture having in recent years compared Africans to a “cancer”. “On Friday the 30th of March 2018 DJ Black Coffee knew exactly what he was doing when he (again) violated the boycott of Israel, his claim of ignorance is hard to take seriously. We unfortunately suspect that his performance in Israel was no mistake and is a sign of his bias toward, what Archbishop Tutu has termed, an apartheid regime. Its up to DJ Black Coffee to now condemn Israeli Apartheid, its illegal occupation, racism against Africans, its imprisonment of children and its killing of Palestinian youth. Its his choice to be on the right side of history,” he said. “More importantly, we call on DJ Black Coffee to choose morality, ethics and human rights above profit similar to the thousands of artists who boycotted Apartheid South Africa during the 1980s and contributed to our liberation,” he said. Kekana said BDS South Africa had tried to engage with Black Coffee in 2014 when he decided to perform in Israel, by writing him a letter. “In addition, a group of progressive Jewish Israelis had written to him explaining the issue and urging him not to perform in Israel. He ignored and chose not to engage with either group,” he said. Black Coffee, Nkosinathi Maphumulo, was born in uMlazi, moved to uMtata and later grew up in Durban. He is married to actress, designer and TV presenter, Mbali Mlotshwa. Black Coffee has won a number of SAMA Awards, Metro FM Awards and a BET Award. Daily News