Durban - Health officials have reported an increase in cases of malaria being reported in malaria-endemic provinces. In a statement the National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) said preliminary data from the National Department of Health shows that the total number of cases in north-eastern Limpopo, eastern Mpumalanga, and northern KwaZulu-Natal has risen in the last three weeks. “These are likely to be travellers returning from neighbouring countries, particularly Mozambique,” said NICD spokeswoman Sinenhlanhla Jimoh. With the recent Easter holidays and an upcoming long weekend, a substantial amount of travel is expected in and out of the country, where there is a risk of acquiring malaria. “Anyone who has been in a malaria risk area in the past 10 days to three weeks and who gets ill with ’flu-like symptoms (headache, muscle and joint pains, chills, fever and sweating; vomiting and loss of appetite in young children) should remember that malaria is a possibility and seek medical attention, which should include a malaria blood test, repeated if necessary,” she said. She said travellers should tell healthcare workers about travel and possible exposure, as they may forget to ask. “Using anti-mosquito measures (nets, repellents etc.) and/or prophylactic medicines does not guarantee perfect protection from malaria. Many people will dine or socialise outdoors in the evening in warm weather and forget to protect bare skin, especially ankles, where mosquitoes like to bite. Delayed diagnosis of malaria often leads to more severe illness with the danger of serious complications or even death.” She also warned against another potentially dangerous infection that may be acquired in the bush, on game reserves, or on farms - tick bite fever - which in its early stages, can appear like malaria, with fever and severe headache. “The finding of an attached tick of any size may be a warning sign of this infection. A small black scab with surrounding inflammation, sometimes with an enlarged, tender local lymph node, is highly suggestive of an infected tick bite, and urgent medical attention is advised.” Daily News 