He said while children were still being transported in bakkies in outlying areas like uMlazi, Phoenix, KwaMashu, Inanda and KwaXimba, the metro police’s “Operation Malume” (which specifically monitors this offence) has, in general, seen a sharp decline in such cases. Checks with community police forums and ward councillors revealed this was an “ongoing problem” in the Montclair, Woodlands and Yellowwood Park areas. Ward 64 councillor Gavin Hegter said children being transported in the back of bakkies was such a big issue that they were in the process of setting up an association to deal with it. “Scholar transporters from our ward are setting up an association so they can monitor the situation. We find that the children who are being transported illegally are from outside our ward. It is a concern, and I have spoken to metro police about it.” Satish Dhupelia, communications officer of the Sydenham Community Police Forum, said they had only come across one recent case. “The driver was told that this kind of transport is illegal and the matter was resolved.” Exceptions KZN Transport Department spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said they were slowly seeing the law being enforced, but there were still some exceptions. “But it is not the norm. These cases are in areas where there is little to no reliable transportation and where pupils and the general public there often resort to unsafe means of transport to get around. “We want to see the matter continuously dealt with to ensure the pupils’ safety,” said Ncalane. The department has interventions in place to assist with this. One programme integrates bakkie drivers into the legal transport system, with the support of taxi associations. The other is a bicycle programme to provide pupils with an alternative, safer option. Sewpersad added that it was not only the road safety issues that parents should be aware of, but that they should also be on the alert for their children’s personal safety - a sentiment echoed by Dhupelia who said they were aware of two cases in which children were inappropriately treated by drivers. “With matters like child trafficking and kidnapping being a concern these days, you must ensure that your children are safe. “When a parent is engaging a transport provider, they must make sure he has a valid driver’s licence and Public Driver’s Permit. Make sure they have no criminal record involving children or reckless and negligent driving.” * Should you have any concerns regarding school transport, such as illegal transport of children, unlicensed drivers, unroadworthy vehicles or overloading, report it to Operation Malume at 031 361 1000. Daily News 