The Daily News had previously reported that angry parents had said the school was in a “deplorable” condition and the toilets for the pupils were “inhumane”. They had handed a memorandum of their grievances to the school principal as well as an official from the provincial Department of Education. One of the biggest challenges, the parents said, was the toilets. The school hall toilets were not working and the backstage area was littered with building material. The boys’ and girls’ toilets were in a putrid state. None of them worked. In the girls’ toilet, the change room was used to store old typewriters and printers, paint trays and broken Masonite boards. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said they had conducted an audit to determine the number of schools without proper sanitation. This was in line with the department’s decision to eradicate pit toilets and resolve sanitation issues in all schools. “It is not the only school affected by sanitation problems. There is a plan to repair or replace it. We have to restore the dignity of pupils and teachers.  The parents’ protests are warranted and we understand their frustrations. We don’t want school hours to be disrupted,” Mthethwa said. “There is a waiting list. We serve 6000 schools in the province. We would love to cover the entire province at once, but we are constrained by the budget and processes. If there is a need and an assessment is done, we would consider getting portable toilets,” he said. The parents, who did not want to be named, said yesterday that two teachers had resigned, leaving pupils without an English teacher for Grades 10 to 12. Parents were told that a new teacher was allocated to the school and another would begin there this week. Speaking of their other grievances, the parents said the school’s 42 classrooms catered for 1 380 pupils. Most of the windows were broken, the light switches were damaged and the doors did not lock. The parents called for security to be employed to prevent vandalism. Daily News