Beth Neale, 35, reached a depth of 47m without fins at the weekend. The previous record stood at 43m. Neale’s record was verified by international free-diving organisation Pure Apnea. She said two judges from the organisation were with her in the water. There were also two other divers and a doctor on standby for safety reasons. Neale had to dive and collect a tag set at 47m. “I had to pick up the tag and go up with it. When I reached the top I had to look the judges in the eye and give the signal that I was fine,” she said. Neale said she stretched before the dive to improve her lung capacity. She also slowed down her breathing to reduce her heart rate. She considers herself a slow diver and spent about two minutes and 30 seconds under water. The longest she has spent under water is five minutes and 35 seconds. It was not all smooth sailing, though. A few weeks before the dive, she contracted a fever which threatened to sink her record attempt. Sharks also made appearances a few days before she broke the record. “Fortunately, on the day there was nothing of the sort,” Neale said. “I am so, so proud I did it in South African waters.  Neale explained that most records are broken in Egypt or in Mediterranean waters where the sea is calm. Local waters tended to have more waves and were less steady for diving. She has always had a passion for diving. Born in Johannesburg, Neale said her family would regularly visit the South Coast. “From childhood, I have always pictured myself as a mermaid.” She started diving in 2010 and has been an instructor for about three years. “Diving is still considered an extreme sport. “Every human being is a natural free diver. Free diving is the most natural thing and I am at peace when I am diving,“ she said. A nature lover at heart, Neal said explorer and marine biologist Sylvia Earle was her role model. One of her main wishes is to go to Tonga where she could swim with humpback whales in the area. Her other desire is to be able to compete in free-diving competitions. Daily News