Durban - Over R6 million will be required for Durban to host the United City and Local Government (UCLG) Congress in 2019. This follows the city and the South African Local Government Association's successful joint bid to host the event which is expected to attract thousands of delegates from around the world. A report tabled at the city's Executive Committee (exco) sitting at the Durban City Hall on Tuesday revealed that the city and Salga had been successful in bidding to host the triennial summit of international, regional and local leaders next year. The event is organized by United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG). According to the report, the event is the largest, most influential local and regional world leaders conference and gathering of mayors, councillors and local governments. The summit, which will be the 6th UCLG, will be held in October or November. Durban won the bid at the 2017 edition of the event which was held in China. The event attracts over 100 countries which would enable the city to showcase its tourism and economic potential to over 3 500 delegates. According to the report, the current financial obligation to host the event is 120 000 Euros (R1,754 million). Further financial obligations for the 2017/18 financial year would be 150 000 Euros (R2,190 million) towards the UCLG administrative costs and a further 150 000 Euros for the global campaign of the UCLG. These amounts would have to be paid 18 months prior to hosting the Congress. Commenting on the bid, Heinz De Boer, DA Exco member said in principle they had no problem with hosting the event as this would allow the international community to see what the city has to offer. “We will, however, remain concerned about the cost exercise. We will need a report on what the cost-sharing will be,” De Boer said. Mdu Nkosi, IFP exco member said he was concerned about the state of cleanliness of the city, and whether Salga, as a partner, will keep its end of the deal. Adrian Peters, chief strategy officer in the city’s strategic management unit said the city was not alone in hosting the event. “The city and Salga submitted the successful bid and there will be different amounts of money to be paid and at different times. This was a joint bid so it’s clear our partner should come on board. In May we need to firm up the cost-sharing issue with them,” Peters said. Daily News