In its interim financial results statement, the entity said that despite the challenging operating environment owing to the prevailing drought at the time, the operating results had shown an improvement for the period under review. Its profits for the period improved by 44% to R62 million from those of December 2016, translating to a surplus of R621m compared to R430m in December 2016. The bulk-water supplier is currently run by acting chief executive Thami Hlongwa, after his predecessor Cyril Gamede left the organisation in mid-2017. Gamede had earlier been suspended on corruption allegations, which were later retracted. An interim board was appointed last October. Umgeni Water spokesperson Shami Harichunder said a permanent chief executive had not been appointed yet. “The position was advertised. Umgeni Water currently has an acting chief executive who, together with other members of the executive and board, ensure that Umgeni Water continues to maintain the highest standards of corporate governance and that the organisation fulfils its mandate through the provision of affordable and safe drinking water to its customers,” said
Harichunder. He said the loyal support of Umgeni Water’s customers had also played a significant role in achieving the latest results. Umgeni Water said its revenue grew by more than 12% year-on-year, mainly due to bulk-water revenue, which increased by close to 18% due to a 15% bulk water tariff increase, which became effective from July 1 last year, combined with a bulk-water sales volumes growth of 2.5%. The entity’s Section 30 activities (other activities complementing bulk water services) revenue declined by close to 64% as a result of the completion of projects. The entity said it had adopted a “going-concern” basis in preparing for the interim financial statements and the directors believed that Umgeni Water had adequate resources to continue operating as a going concern in the foreseeable future. Umgeni Water will merge with Mhlathuze Water to form one regional water board called the KwaZulu-
Natal Water Board in efforts to 
improve water supply efficiency in the province.  In November last 
year the then water and sanitation minister, Nomvula Mokonyane, issued a notice in the Government Gazette noting the intention to 
disestablish Mhlathuze Water; transfer staff, assets and liabilities to
Umgeni Water; and change the name. Harichunder said Umgeni Water would continue with prudent management of controllable costs - a strategy that had produced positive outcomes. “Cost control will include prioritising capital expenditure in accordance with assurance of water supply. The organisation is proud to say cost management has become (one of the) key focuses of employees of Umgeni Water.” University of Zululand economist Professor Irrshad Kaseeram said it was critical for the water board both to maintain and expand the necessary infrastructure in consultation with private business, municipalities and the agriculture sector; that is, all consumers of bulk water. “KwaZulu-Natal is expected to continue to have heavy stormy rains on occasion well into the future. The entity ought to develop appropriate infrastructure to collect such water resources instead of flooding and wasteful run-offs occurring,” said Kaseeram. Daily News