An insider said the situation was getting worse at the 930-bed hospital as employees refused to work unless their grievances were resolved. “This is scary because the theatre, accident and emergency unit, and one of the two psychiatric wards, are left unattended. The employer doesn’t care about the employees’ well-being.” A nurse, who asked not to be named, said they found it difficult to work under “strenuous conditions”, while the department failed to compensate them for their time. “The department is gambling with patients’ lives. Our lives, too, are at risk because if you lose focus, you can easily cut or prick your hand or finger with the sharp objects used in theatre. One can get infections, or even endanger patients by administering wrong medication,” said the nurse. Sibonelo Cele, Democratic Nursing Organisation of SA spokesperson, confirmed the dire situation at the three units. Cele said their members were expected to carry the load as if all was normal. “I can confirm that our members decided to down tools. The challenge is that every time we engage the department, they put forward excuses instead of solutions. What is disturbing is that the department keeps on introducing new programmes and expects us to perform those with the existing staff complement,” Cele said. Theatre “Not only theatre staff members have boycotted their duties; the accident and emergency unit, and one of the two psychiatric wards are also left unattended. The department cancelled overtime payment. They withdrew overtime payment twice in different units this month,” Cele said. He cautioned the department about litigation if the issues were not resolved. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson on Health, said the department’s finances were in ruin and Treasury intervention was required. He said Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo should take full responsibility for the situation because he had presided over the department for almost 10years. A spokesperson for the Department, Ncumisa Mafunda, said: “The department is not aware of any so-called strike action at King Dinuzulu Hospital. However, facility management was notified that some staff in theatre and high care did not call in at work (on Thursday) but reported sick. They are required to furnish management with sick notes. All staff in psychiatry reported for duty. “The department has not withdrawn overtime payment, but restricted overtime payment to a maximum 30% of each employee’s salary, as per new policy from the Department of Public Service and Administration. “Ten out of 11 cases requiring surgery today (yesterday) were operated on; only one case was postponed for medical ­reasons. Internal labour relations concerns raised by staff are being addressed through internal processes.” Daily News