During an executive committee (exco) meeting sitting at the facility yesterday, Gumede commented on the state of the hall. The matter was not on the agenda on Tuesday, but Gumede became emotional about the state of the building. “Terms of reference must be clear that the city manager and myself are in charge of this place. This is a powerhouse, like other city halls in big cities. This is an iconic building, and I’m unhappy with the state it is in. “You cannot have people being robbed outside the city hall, as well as other security issues. We have to treat this building as an important asset of the City. Other city hall buildings in various cities are beautiful, well maintained and well managed. We need to elevate the city hall. I am raising the issue here so that the City Manager, Sipho Nzuza, can ensure there is a budget to do this,” Gumede said. She lamented the state of the bathrooms and other facilities at the building. She said the painting and the beautification of the structure should be attended to. “As we are about to be busy with the budget, we need to make sure there is money set aside to ensure that all these discrepancies are attended to. We need to ensure that everything is working at the city hall, including the pipe organ. “Tourists come to see the city hall and it needs to be of a good standard. At present, anyone can enter city hall. I am raising this matter before the executive committee meeting so that it can be addressed. “We need to treat the city hall as one of the most important assets in the city,” Gumede said. eThekwini Municipality is working towards rolling out its 2018/19 budget hearings and Integrated Development Plan (IDP) consultation roadshows to be held across the city. Gumede said they would be working with councillor Barbara Fortein, chairperson of the governance and human resources committee on the city hall matter, adding that officials would be responsible for how upgrades would be implemented. Fortein blamed the architecture unit for the state of the city hall and said the matter needed to be given attention. The city has seen a number of disruptions during exco meetings at city hall, by people who claimed to be VIP protection officers and MK veterans demanding jobs. Daily News