The medal was given to him  by Cardinal Wilfrid Napier, the Archbishop of Durban. The medal, which was awarded to him by Pope Francis, was first awarded by Pope Pius VI in 1775 to recognise military achievements by people who fought in the papal army. However, in the past 100 years it has been given to lay people and clergy who have made extraordinary contributions to the church. Kearney, 75, who has been working for the church for more than 40 years, said the award came as a surprise to him. “It seemed to be given to very holy people, and I don’t regard myself as being very holy. It was a pleasant surprise to be honoured by Pope Francis, who is a great guy,” he said. Kearney said he knew something was up when he was told by Father Nkosinathi Ngcobo to come to the Emmanuel Cathedral near Durban’s city centre last week. He was awarded the medal in front of the congregation of which he has been a part for about 25 years. Kearney, who was born in Pietermaritzburg, said it was such a surprise that he was not able tell his friends and family about it. He said he received the medal after being recommended by Professor Alfred Msomi, chairperson of the Parish Pastoral Council, and Ngcobo, who promoted the nomination. He was grateful, too, for the arrangements made by Cardinal Napier. This was not the end of the road for Kearney, though. He still works with the KZN Christian Council and helps them with fundraising efforts and good governance. “I hope to be able to continue with that work,” he said. Asked about the future of the Catholic Church in society, he said the church had to continue to play a prophetic role and identify problems and help find solutions to these. This was especially important as the country faced many challenges like corruption and inequality. Today’s South Africa was unlike the one during apartheid, where there was a clear enemy, he said. “The church has to be the voice of the voiceless,” he said. It was in being this voice that he had spent most of his life helping the poor and fighting social injustice with his mentor, the late Archbishop Denis Hurley - fights which had landed him in jail, he said. Recalling events, Kearney said he was part of the United Democratic Front in the 1980s and his activism had landed him in detention for two weeks. Kearney, a former teacher, said he helped Hurley start the Diakonia Council of Churches in 1976, and it was here where he was arrested by the apartheid government for his activism. He spent two weeks in detention under section 29 of the Internal Security Act which prevented him from seeing lawyers, friends or family. He was detained at CR Swart police station (now Durban Central police station) where he was questioned every day whether he was a member of the ANC. “I was very scared you didn’t know what was going to happen,” he said. As he was leaving the station, he saw Hurley and Diakonia staff waiting for him. “I thought they had arrested the whole lot,” Kearney said. In fact, Hurley and the staff at Diakonia had been fighting tirelessly for his release, Kearney said. It was the first time a person was released from section 29 detention because of a court application. Daily News