Durban- It has been a week since the Newlands East library in Durban had their computers stolen and the guard was beaten up. Avid readers and school children with research projects were dealt a blow after robbers stole computers. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani  Zwane, KwaZulu Natal police spokesperson, said four robbers, armed with a hammer, assaulted the security guard and then got into the library by breaking the door to the library last week Monday. Zwane said the robbers took computer equipment before they fled the scene. No arrest had been made. The robbers did not steal a computer in the librarian`s main office and another on the front counter. They took the others. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini municipality spokesperson, said libraries belong to the community and are central to it. "All libraries, whether it is a school, public, academic or special library, are at the heart of their communities. They offer vital resources to address community needs and are places where the community gathers.  We urge our residents to respect and protect these facilities," Mthethwa said. Mthethwa said the library remains open to the public, however, those who would like to make use of our computers are urged to visit other community libraries in the meantime. Mthethwa said the city would be submitting an insurance claim, and the issue will be resolved as soon as the claim is approved. "Our libraries have a guard 24 hours a day. He was, unfortunately, injured during the scuffle with the culprits. We will be looking at other safety measures in order to tighten our security," Mthethwa said. The Friends of the Newlands East library group said in a statement that a large bush behind the library provided cover for the robbers. The robbers had climbed onto the roof from an embankment behind the library. When the guard saw them he allegedly hid in the kitchen. The robbers kicked the door of the kitchen in an attempt to get him. The guard was beaten by the robbers because they thought he had hidden the keys. The group sent out an appeal on social media groups asking for information about the incident and a tip-off on who might have stolen the computers. The group said, in a statement, they were deeply disturbed by the burglary at their local library. Only one computer was left, there was no internet access for the public. Shontel De Boer, Newlands East Proportional Representative councillor, said the computer theft has left users without internet services and staff without computers to do their work.  "It is saddening to the community especially those who access this library for internet services as well as school children for their projects and studies. Security of libraries is of importance. The eThekwini community services committee has yet to sit and deliberate these matters after cancelling the workshop meant to deal with this twice already," De Boer said. Mthethwa said the matter has been reported to the South African Police Service.  A case of business robbery was opened at Newlands East police station. Anyone with information to contact 10111 Daily News 