Durban- Tributes were pouring in for Essop Khan, South African performer and playwright, who died in his Durban home yesterday. Khan,72, who was versatile in the many acting and directing fields,  made an immense contribution to the SA theatre industry and was best known for his onstage antics alongside  Mohammed Ali. Khan and Ali created Ekma productions 33 years ago. "Our friendship and acting partnership went back 50 years. We had written more than 27 plays between us and we have featured in close on 60 productions," Ali said. "One thing I do know is that he lived life to the fullest and always told me he had no regrets because he did what he wanted to. He always advised me to take it one day at a time," he added. Khan had been ill for some time and his health was ailing. He was not married but lived with his family in Asherville. Ali said he had spent time with Khan on Sunday.  "I held his hand. His eyes were closed. I told him its me Ali. He made a sound to hint that he acknowledged my voice," said an emotional Ali. They met at a social club called 2to5 in Denis Hurley (Queen) Street and their friendship grew in leaps and bounds over the decades. "We decided to go on our own. Take a chance. We realised people wanted good comedy with a social message. Our play Jamal Syndrome was a hit and sold out for two years countrywide. We had some good experiences together," Ali said. Jayshree Parasuramen a theatre personality and close friend said a big tree had fallen and he was an icon in the industry who gave his life to theatre. Parasuramen said the last show they worked on was in 2015. It was a tribute to Ekma and the dedication and contribution to the theatre over the years. She said the production company had done numerous fundraising initiatives for religious organisations and schools throughout the country. "A man who selflessly gave underdogs an opportunity in the arts by creating an equal opportunity for all those who worked with him. Let us all who have experienced this selfless human being in Essop, ensure that we pay our respects and salute his family for allowing us the privilege of sharing his life and their home. We are who we are because Legends like Essop believed in us," Parasuramen said. Khan and Ali co-created and performed in a number of comic works including the hugely popular Jamal Syndrome (1987), My Good Neighbours (2013). On their personal Facebook pages several theatre personalities paid tribute to Khan. Warrick Frank, the owner of a drama academy, said Khan was his mentor. Frank said when no one else gave him a break in the entertainment game, Khan took him under his wing.  "He gave me the strength and guidance to fly on my own.Through this trying time, all I hear is your voice echoing in my head telling me what you've always told me, 'I helped you find the strength in your wings, now fly my baby, fly!'," he wrote. Mervyn Pillay, actor and comedian,  aid he grew up watching his productions. Pillay described him as a gentle humble human being. Sharon Pillay described him as a true legend and mentor. "My life was influenced so positively by him too. You will always be in our hearts," she said. Gordon Moodley said he was a brilliant actor. "Never missed his shows. All-time favourite Essop. Your legacy lives on," Moodley said. Ravin Jankhi Harripersadh, a master of ceremonies, said Khan's death was a difficult pill to swallow. "You were an inspiration to us all stage performer. Your antics, scriptwriter and ability to garner in aspirant actors and comics was a unique trait," Harripersadh said. Pranesh Maharaj, a Durban actor, said Khan's touring theatre company kept the game alive for a long while. Maharaj first watched them in 1989. Daily News