Durban- A metro police scholar patrol team situated on the M4 in Durban North have been praised for saving three children from being knocked on the busy freeway on Sunday. Scholar patrol teams have been designated to patrol bridges in the municipality to prevent rock throwing. This team was stationed on the Swapo (Broadway)Road. Greg Albert a cyclist going pass, posted a message on Facebook commending the patrol team. Albert said an alleged domestic dispute between a couple allegedly took place at a petrol station along Old Mill Way near the M4. He was not sure of the circumstances behind it and if the couple were travelling in a car or on foot. They had three children with them. "The patrol team saw the children fleeing across a section of the freeway. These members of the metro sprang into action and risked there lives on the M4 highway. Well done for saving the lives of the baby and two young sisters.Your bravery was amazing," he said. The speed limit on the road is 100 km/h but drivers exceed this limit. Albert added," To the fast response of the SAPS Durban- North and Marshall great job. To the members of the public who assisted Thank you for getting involved while others looked away. To the Ladies from Crisis Medical, you ladies were angels for taking the children to safety in their time of need. To Crisis Medical Team, thank you for attending to the baby.Thank you to Capt Greg Beavon and Capt Isabel Moolman for always sending me back up when I need it". This is how people responded on Facebook: Vamile Gwamanda- They have done us all #proud, if it wasn't for the members that were on that bridge those kids would have lost their lives, I hope those kids get counselling it's always the kids that have to suffer, to everyone who attended thank you very much for your quick response. Brenda Goldstone -How wonderful to know that you were there for children in desperate need!
Carol Van Tonder -The children are safe and in good hands now we spoilt them a little and had huge smiles and we got huge hugs when they left - SAPS crisis team ladies Daily News 