At the Umgeni Road offices, applicants have been either sent home for a different document required or because of lengthy queues. For Regina Umutoni, a Rwandan national, help was given on Monday only after she braved the officials and bodyguards surrounding Malusi Gigaba and requested his attention. A few more people also seized the opportunity to seek Gigaba’s attention and he then instructed his officials to attend to those cases. Umutoni said she had been waiting for her travel documents since last year. She told the Daily News yesterday how “draining” and “frustrating” it was to be turned away without a direct indication of when she should return for the documents. She had applied for the documents at the Umgeni Road Home Affairs offices. “You are dealing with people who don’t care about your frustration. “I applied for my documents in November last year and every time I come here I’m told to wait as it would take time to process the documents because I am a foreigner. “Strangely, I have a South African bar-coded green identity book and I have been in the country for more than 20 years now. “My business has stalled because I can’t travel without the documents,” Umutoni said. She did not believe the issue was with the working conditions, but lack of empathy for fellow citizens. “Poor working conditions cannot stop you from listening to me and telling me approximately how long I have to wait for the papers,” Umutoni said. “Instead, these people keep on telling me that they (papers) will take time because I’m a foreigner. These people have no empathy and I feel that they do not understand their own system. “If they did, then they would know the estimated time to wait for the documents,” she said. Umutoni said even though her identity document shows that she is not of South African origin, the system should be able to pick up her particulars and should be easy for the department officials to process her papers. “It’s not fair to keep someone’s life in limbo because of your system, or because officials do not understand the system itself,” she said. Other aggrieved citizens felt that the department employees did not know how their system worked. When the Daily News went to the Umgeni Road offices on Monday, Tasneem Asmall had already waited for more than five hours to apply for a passport, but the process had not started when the reporter spoke to her. “Internationally, you apply online. They revert and give you a date and time for when you should go to the offices. On that day, you are attended to and in an hour you leave the offices with your documents. I’m surprised that things have progressed so much in the international arena, yet South Africa is lagging behind. “There’s efficiency in other countries and that’s what we lack here,” Asmall said. During his walkabout at the Umgeni Road offices, Gigaba instructed his officials to immediately attend to some of the people, including Umutoni. He had visited the offices as part of his “war on queues” campaign recently launched after numerous complaints about the long waiting times and people being turned away. Addressing the media afterwards, Gigaba pointed to the quality of management in some of their offices as the cause of the problem. “Home Affairs is one of the most under-resourced departments in the country and our officials work under enormous pressure. “We have, however, set our sights to do away with long queues within the next 12 months. “This morning the system crashed in these offices and there was no work done for about two hours, which is a cause for concern,” Gigaba said. He said the public-private partnership with the banking sector to roll out the e-Home Affairs service to branches of Absa, FNB, Nedbank, and Standard Bank was making progress. Daily News