Durban - Motorists will have to use alternative road routes along the N3 Durban to Pietermaritzburg off-ramp at Hammarsdale Interchange on Tuesday  between 6.30am and 5pm. This is according to the South African National Roads Agency SOC (Sanral) who said that traffic will be diverted onto the Peacevale/Cliffdale off-ramp, Meadway Road to Hammarsdale and Cato Ridge Road. Ravi Sonny, Sanral Eastern Region Design & Construction Manager, said Sanral apologises for the frustration daily road users have faced on the N3 and ramps at the Hammarsdale Interchange. “The contractor has not returned to work since the December shutdown period due to ongoing stakeholders issues in the area. We are trying to resolve the current challenges between the contractors and the stakeholders from the area,” Sonny said. He said they have noticed an increase in traffic volumes using the ramp, and they suspect that it is a result of the opening of local businesses in the area. To alleviate this, the contractor has also been instructed to move the concrete barriers on the N3 in order to re-open the N3 fast lanes until construction works can re-commence. This will hopefully alleviate the back-up onto the N3. He said the Pietermaritzburg bound off-ramp was intended to be a temporary measure which was never intended to be used for such a long period. “Unfortunately, the current problems on the site are hampering the progress of the project, and regrettably prolonging the use of the ramp. We have noted the limited work being undertaken by the contractor, and we have instructed that the repairs to the ramp be attended to urgently,” he said. He said it is extremely regrettable that the public is having to endure the inconvenience of the temporary traffic control measures for longer than was ever anticipated and Sanral is working towards finding a solution to the issues as best as they can. “We are monitoring the condition of the ramp and the planned work to be undertaken by the contractor,” he concluded. Daily News