Durban - Three private security guards will be appearing in Pinetown Magistrate’s Court on Friday after unlawfully discharging firearms Molweni, west of Durban. A video went viral on social media, showing private security guards discharging their firearms in Molweni. “Three private security guard aged between 37 and 40 will appear in the Pinetown Magistrates Court later today (Friday) after they handed themselves over to Hillcrest police yesterday (Thursday),” Zwane said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. He said their firearms are suspected to have been used in the random shootings that have taken place in Molweni recently. The firearms were also seized and will undergo ballistic tests to establish whether they have been used in other crimes. “They were arrested after police opened a case of discharging of firearms in public following a video found circulating on social media where people were seen discharging their firearms randomly at Molweni. Hillcrest police acted decisively and initiated an investigation that led to the arrest of three people, believed to be private security guards, who can be seen on video,” he continued. In another incident, it is alleged that bodyguards discharged their firearms during a public meeting at a hall on April 9 and a case of discharging firearms in a public place was opened at Howick police station. Days later, three bodyguards were arrested and charged. The bodyguards appeared at the Howick Magistrates Court Court on Thursday and the case was remanded to May 17. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, said “We will not tolerate such behaviour by people who randomly discharged their firearms whether at funerals, meetings or any other functions. I commend our police officers who acted swiftly and have arrested those who were involved in these unlawful behaviour. Police were alerted to these incidents after two separate videos of people discharging firearms in public that went viral on social media. Such people are putting the lives of others at risk as these stray bullets may strike innocent people in the process.” Daily News