Mandated by its members to pull out all the stops to force the scheme to close as soon as possible, the Educators’ Union of South Africa (Eusa) said yesterday it had finally secured a meeting with GEMS on May 4. The union intends to confront the scheme with allegations of corruption that left members’ medical aids exhausted as early as February, without using their benefits, and being rejected by medical facilities. Eusa general secretary Simphiwe Mpungose said they had intensified their plans to have GEMS scrapped. He said complaints included frustration from members who were being forced by medical practitioners to pay cash because doctors were tired of delays in receiving payments. Eusa president Scelo Isaac Bhengu said the union had planned nationwide picketing outside GEMS offices countrywide this month should the scheme refuse to close shop. He said while private medical aid schemes would work out to be more expensive, the government would have to come to the party and fully subsidise members to join medical aids of their choice. Nompilo Dlomo, a teacher at an Inanda school, said she was considering cancelling GEMS after being told in February that her funds had already been exhausted for the year. “I have no idea how my funds suddenly vanished. My husband had visited the doctor a few times in January, but not enough to exhaust my medical aid. I want to know what happened to my funds,” she said. Thobeka Ngidi said she was admitted to hospital in February and had to pay cash for her follow-up appointments as the doctor would not take GEMS members. A doctor based at Mount Edgecombe Hospital told the Daily News he was forced to turn away patients because of the problems he experienced with GEMS. Mpungose said GEMS was “disastrous and incompetent”. “Funds get exhausted unknowingly. Some GPs and pharmacies are no longer accepting GEMS cards because it doesn’t pay on time. We raised all these issues in the letters we wrote to them, some of which were not responded to,” he said. A letter written by GEMS principal officer Dr Gunvant Goolab, which the Daily News is in possession of, notes the concerns raised by Eusa and believes their meeting would be a starting point to resolve the issues. “On behalf of the scheme, we would like to apologise for not being able to address your notice timeously,” said Goolab. According to statistics released by the Council for Medical Schemes (CMS), the regulator of the medical schemes industry, GEMS recorded 1.8 million members last year and was the second-biggest scheme after Discovery . Riana Strydom, customer experience manager at GEMS, was not available for comment. Daily News