Mayor Zandile Gumede admitted to the Daily News that when she announced in August that she had set up a task team to investigate the system, there was no such team in place. At that time, she had demanded a report in two months. The “task team” was to investigate the malfunctioning billing system which was introduced in 2016 to replace the Coins system. Since its introduction, the RMS had been problematic and hit a snag, with ratepayers receiving incorrect bills. The problems led to RMS employees picketing in October after their inability to explain to ratepayers the cause for the inflated bills. When pressed for answers on the report from the team this week, Gumede said there was no team in place at that time, but the city was working on having one in place. “The municipal manager is handling the matter. The task team started its work very late because of delays in processes. I need an independent body to provide me with a report into the system. Residents will get feedback soon,” Gumede said. Residents are, in the meantime, still faced with incorrect bills and RMS employees unable to explain the problem. Star Ngubane, a Cato Manor resident, said his water bill for last month was R14000. “This is frustrating because you go to the municipality to seek answers and you get none. I have submitted a claim form but they have not responded. You look and you find no leak, but your bill gets so huge, and this is scary. “It’s mind-boggling that the mayor would announce a task team was in place and months later change her tune to say the team was not there when she announced it,” Ngubane said. A Mrs S David, also a Cato Manor resident, had a R9 000 water bill. She said her daughter had to borrow R5 500 to pay it to avoid having their water supply cut off. “These people (municipality) don’t care. We are only good to give them votes and when they are in positions of power they forget who put them there,” she said. Sharon Hoosen, DA member of the city’s executive committee, said more than R700million was spent on the system. “It comes as no surprise that the task team to investigate irregularities with this billing system was not implemented. “The mayor and her ANC administration have proven over time that they are not committed to clean governance and eradicating corruption and maladministration in the city. “I suspect that the reason behind the failure to investigate these irregularities is because individuals who benefited from this contract are, one way or another, linked either to the mayor or the ANC. “The DA will continue to pursue and pressure the municipality to ensure that we get to the bottom of the matter and we continue to fight to hold those accountable,” Hoosen said. In December, the city had raised concerns, including that the manual intervention in the system (RMS) resulted in delays, and in some incidents the readings had been corrupted and had to be deleted. The affected connections had to have estimated readings charged. The merging process was problematic, with some connections being removed from the download file so the download could proceed. According to the audit report, the meter reading audit processing was slower than the Coins system because the screen used did not provide all the information required to audit the readings. The Daily News reported that not all data-handling scenarios relating to the Coins system might have been identified in the mapping process. This could have resulted in errors picked up post-migration. At the core of data defects are property/service addresses, deposits and incorrect account types. Zinhle Cele, the ANC eThekwini spokesperson, said Hoosen’s accusations were nonsensical. “She must look into her own party for corruption. They are firing (Patricia) De Lille in Cape Town; in Nelson Mandela Bay (Athol) Trollip is fighting for survival with the EFF wanting him out. They (DA) must support their accusations with evidence. “Lastly, the mayor is only the political head of the municipality and the municipal manager is the administrative head, so all administrative decisions rest with him,” Cele said. Daily News