Durban - Emergency services were involved in a three hour road accident rescue in kwaZulu-Natal after the driver of a heavy goods vehicle lost control and crashed down an 80m embankment. Paul Herbst of IPSS Medical Rescue said a truck plummeted down an 80m embankment before landing on its roof in dense vegetation in the early hours of Saturday morning. Herbst said the incident took place on the N2 north bound lane before Mandeni, north of Durban. “The driver sustained critical injuries and was severely entrapped within the cab of the truck. The passenger was fortunate to escape with minor injuries. After the collision the passenger managed to climb the steep embankment and walked approximately 4 km to the toll gate to call for emergency assistance,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Emergency services in KwaZulu-Natal were part of a three hour road incident rescue where they had to cut down trees and vegetation to get to an entrapped driver. Video: IPSS Medical Rescue “Rescuers had to cut down trees and thick vegetation before the they could get to the truck. While under the care of IPSS advanced life support paramedic, rescuers took 3 hours before the critically injured driver was freed from the wreckage using the jaws of life,” he continued. He also said both patients were were transported to hospital by IPSS Medical Rescue. In another incident, 17 people were left injured after a minibus taxi and light motor vehicle crashed on the R56 in Dawnville, KwaZulu-Natal. Russel Meiring, ER24 spokesperson said they arrived at the scene with other emergency services to find both vehicles at the bottom of an embankment and the taxi lying on its roof. “Several people were found either seated or lying around both the vehicles. Paramedics assessed the patients and found that one man had sustained numerous injuries and was in a critical condition. Sixteen other patients were found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries. Paramedics treated the patients and provided the critically injured man with advanced life support interventions. Once treated, the patients were transported to various hospitals in the area for further treatment,” Meiring said. Daily News