The bill makes provision for jail sentences for anyone found guilty of verbal and physical attacks which are proven to be racist or hateful. Public interest in the bill is high after  last week’s precedent-setting crimen injuria sentencing of Vicki Momberg. The Randburg Magistrate’s Court sentenced her to three years in jail - of which one year was suspended - for the racist, verbal assault on a black police officer after he tried to help her when she was the victim of a smash-and-grab incident in Johannesburg in 2016. In total, Momberg used the “k-word” 48 times, even when she telephoned the police’s emergency number for help. Before her jail sentence, the Equality Court had already ordered Momberg to pay R100 000 to Constable David Makhondo, for her racist diatribe. The Freedom of Expression Institute (FXI) told the Daily News that while some parts of the current bill were good, the interpretation of “hate” and the inclusion of “feelings” made some parts of it too broad to be measured. The FXI’s Lorraine 
Tlomatsane said the bill could hamper freedom of speech. She said if journalists reported on hate speech or hate crime and repeated what was said, for context, they could be accused of perpetuating the crime. Whistle-blowers could also be silenced out of fear that by highlighting possible fraud or mismanagement, the person they fingered could accuse them of hate speech. Tlomatsane said: “We give too much importance to certain words said by certain people.” She said a recent example was when Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng and the DA’s Helen Zille made similar comments about apartheid, but only Zille was accused of being racist. She also warned that people who complained about their employers on social networks could possibly be charged with hate speech. “How do you measure hurting emotions. How do you measure a threat?” 
Tlomatsane questioned. She said the FXI was in favour of rehabilitating rather than criminalising those accused of hate speech and hate crimes. If adopted into law, the bill would also present a problem to police as they would have to decide which case took precedent. “Will they prioritise a rape case or a case involving alleged hate speech or hate crime?” asked Tlomatsane. Last week, the Department of Justice and Correctional Services said parts of the bill had been changed, but would only be made public after it was tabled in Parliament. Spokesperson Steve Mahlangu said once the bill became law it would be enforced like any other law. “The police will be the first contact for victims of hate crime and hate speech. Therefore, all public officials who may be involved in the investigation and prosecution of these cases will be trained. This training will include social context training,” he said. Mahlangu said hate crime and hate speech cases would be adjudicated in high courts and regional courts. However, the SA Institute of Race Relations (IRR) has called for the bill to be scrapped. Michael Morris, the organisation’s spokesperson, said South Africa already had various laws which made racist remarks unlawful and punishable. This included the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act. Morris said the hate speech provisions in the bill went “far beyond” the limits of the constitution and criminalised speech even if it was merely insulting. “The bill would thus allow speech to be prohibited and punished simply because, for example, it ‘insults’ a politician and brings him into ‘ridicule’ for what he has done as part of his ‘occupation’,” he said. The IRR was also concerned about the bill’s impact on media freedom because hate speech provisions were wide enough to cover cartoons and other criticisms of, for example, the president and his cabinet. The IRR warned that politicians and activists were increasingly willing to exploit racial nationalism for their own ends. “Race is a handy means of distracting attention from what is really wrong in our society and, if the provisions of the bill are misused and are applied unevenly, it could add to racial polarisation and raise the risk of racial confrontation,” said Morris. Last year, Scottburgh resident Penny Sparrow was fined R150 000 by the Equality Court after she compared black people on the beach to monkeys, during a Facebook rant on New Year’s Eve in 2016. Daily News