The mid-term draft budget was tabled last week at the city’s executive committee (Exco) and full council sessions. The budget still has to go out for public comment this month before it is approved by the full council  next month. The draft budget would be discussed at city roadshows as well as at meetings with businesses and would be tabled at all wards and zones for public comment. In the city’s operational budget of R38.7bn, electricity took the biggest share with R14.4bn to be spent on services. Krish Kumar, the municipality’s deputy city manager for finance, said at Exco last week that the city had decided not to take Eskom’s electricity tariff increase of 7.32%, opting instead for a 6.84% rise. Last year, Eskom had recommended an increase of 2.2%. The report also reflected a possible 15% water increase for domestic use and 15.5% increase for businesses. Kumar, however, said this would change depending on how Umgeni Water changed its tariffs. Water loss was still a huge issue for the municipality. “Despite the numerous interventions, the water loss in distribution continues to be a serious challenge,” the report said. The water losses were mainly due to illegal connections and ageing infrastructure, it said. “The challenge faced in reducing water losses are compounded by the mushrooming of informal settlements,” the report noted. Kumar said the city was also facilitating catalytic projects that would attract R100bn in public and private sector investments. eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede said the city should make sure procurement payments were done timeously. She asked Kumar to ensure that by the time the budget was approved, the city would be ready to make procurement payments. Gumede said slow payments were affecting service delivery in the city. Sharon Hoosen, DA Chief Whip, said what was important was that copies of the budget were given to ward councillors in time, which was not happening. Nicole Graham, DA caucus leader, said the party would look at the budget and would comment on it in May. She questioned whether the municipality was genuinely interested in getting public opinion. Graham said the municipality was holding public gatherings at large venues like stadiums and not at smaller venues where they would be able to better communicate with the community and get more detailed insights. Daily News