Durban - Police are searching for three men who escaped from police custody in Ekombe, northern KwaZulu-Natal. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said the three men escaped while they were detained in the police cells at Ekombe police station. “Nhlakanipho Nunuzana Dubazane, 27, was detained for murder, Lindelani Majola, 19, was detained for house robbery and Mzikayise Khanyile, 38, was charged for murder which was reported in the Nkandla area. These awaiting prisoners are still at large and a manhunt by police has begun,” Gwala said. Gwala said the men are regarded as dangerous and police have appealed to the community to assist by giving police information on their whereabouts. “Anyone who sees or know their whereabouts is asked to contact any local police station or our Crime Stop number on  08600 10111. Ekombe Detective Branch Commander Captain Vusumuzi Mbatha at 082 411 6790,” she said. In another incident, Hilton police are searching for two wanted men and warrants for their arrest have been issued. “Thabiso Ndlovu, 31, was arrested in June 2015 after he was found in possession of copper cables. The cables were identified by Transnet. He was taken to Pietermaritzburg Magistrates’ Court for prosecution where he was convicted. At the time, he was released on bail but he never returned to court for sentencing. He rented a room in France location, Pietermaritzburg but he had since moved out,” she continued. “Emmanuel Nkosinathi Mkhize, 44, is wanted by police for fraud. He was working at the Department of Agriculture (supply chain management). He fraudulently provided the details of the company that will supply the one-day old chicks and cash of up to R50 000 was deposited to his bank account that he had opened using that company name. The chicks were not delivered and the company did not exist. He disappeared from his home in Clermont area outside Pinetown,” she said. She said anyone with information on their whereabouts is urged to contact Hilton detective, Constable Nxele on 033 845 6520/1 or 072 108 1738. Our Crime Stop number can also be contacted on 08600 10111. Daily News