Durban - Seven people were killed in three separate road crashes in KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend. Three people were killed and one person was left injured after vehicle they were travelling in lost control and crashed into a fire hydrant and a street pole on Saturday morning. Rescue Care Paramedics responded to the scene of the incident at the corner of Dorothy Nyembe (Gardiner) and Dr Pixley Kaseme (West) streets in the Durban city.  Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care Operations Director, said the single vehicle had collided with a fire hydrant and a pole, both driver and passenger were severely entrapped in the wreckage and the Durban Fire Department used the Jaws of Life to cut them free. “The driver was in a critical condition and placed on a manual ventilator before being rushed to a nearby hospital for the further care that he required. The passenger had sustained serious injuries and was also cut free. Two occupants believed to be seated in the rear of the vehicle had been ejected and were found on the opposite side of the road, both were critically injured. Advanced Life Support Paramedics placed both on manual ventilators on the scene. One of the injured had sustained major injuries and unfortunately went into cardiac arrest, he passed away on the scene. The second patient was transported to a nearby hospital with critical injuries. Two other also ejected sustained moderate injuries,” Jamieson said.  The other two passengers had died in hospital while one remains in a critical condition. In another incident, three people were killed and one left injured after three vehicles crashed into each other on the Hans Dettman Highway near Shallcross on Saturday afternoon.  A woman believed to be in her forties died shortly after arriving in hospital while the drivers of the other two vehicles later died in hospital. “Three vehicles had collided before one vehicle burst into flames and one overturned coming to rest on its side. The entire roadway was closed. One female was severely entrapped in her vehicle and in a critical condition. Whilst Fire Fighters worked to cut her free Advanced Life Support Paramedics worked to stabilise her. Once freed the lady went into Cardiac Arrest and resuscitation efforts began, after a short while Paramedics regained a pulse and the lady was rushed to a nearby hospital where unfortunately a short while later passed away. Her teenage son who was also in the car had sustained moderate injuries and was also transported to hospital,” Jamieson said.  He said events leading to the crashes in unknown but police were on scene and were investigating. In another incident, a man believed to be in his 30s was killed after his bakkie crashed into a vehicle recovery truck on the N3 near the Cato Ridge. “ER24 paramedics were returning to their branch when they were flagged down by motorists. On scene, paramedics found the truck and bakkie on the side of the road. The body of a man, believed to be in his 30s, was found lying trapped inside the wrecked bakkie. Paramedics assessed the entrapped man and found that he had already succumbed to his numerous, fatal injuries. Nothing could be done for him and he was declared dead,” said Russel Meiring, ER24 spokesperson. He said the driver of the truck was not injured and police were on scene investigating the incident. Daily News