At a media briefing in Cape Town, Pandor addressed matters relating to students not receiving allocated government funding grants for 2018 on time. She also raised concern over some students from 2017, who still had not received their grants. “I have decided that we must assess all NSFAS processes and systems this year, and address all the identified problems that have been brought to our attention. Every single delay has a real effect on students, on their ability to find accommodation and food, books and, ultimately, on their ability to succeed. We simply cannot fail to distribute funding to students when it is available,” she said. The briefing follows months of discontent from students over payment issues, which also led to several protests. Effectively, as of this year, government will support poor and working-class students through an expanded bursary scheme, which replaces the previous loan and partial bursary scheme. Successful applicants can receive allowances for their studies, accommodation and food. Although first-time students will not be expected to pay back the cost of their bursaries, they will be expected to meet certain conditions and expectations. These exact details are being finalised. In KZN the Durban University of Technology was forced to close early last semester because of protest action. More recently there have been reported protests at Umfolozi College campuses in Richards Bay. Challenges in the integration of data between systems of NSFAS, universities and colleges are largely to blame for students not receiving their allocated funding. And it is not just 2018 recipients affected, with some allocations from 2017 still outstanding. Pandor said in 2017, NSFAS migrated fully to the new “student-centred model”. “There are still some challenges with finalising the 2017 intake, especially where qualifying students have not yet signed their loan agreement forms. I am aware that some continuing senior students have not yet had their funding finalised for the 2017 academic year. I find this unacceptable and have instructed my department and NSFAS to work with institutions to deal with the outstanding cases as a matter of urgency.” With regards to the 2018 issues she said challenges with the exchange of data between NSFAS and institutions had affected the submission of registration data to NSFAS. “The exchange of data is crucial, as this will confirm to NSFAS that students assessed to be eligible for funding are registered at an institution. This data integration also enables NSFAS to generate a bursary agreement form, which must be signed by the student before funding is allocated to the student.” Some institutions say they have submitted the data, but students have not received funds. “I have instructed NSFAS to urgently address the integration issues and work with the affected institutions. It is crucial that NSFAS finalises the 2018 funding decisions urgently to ensure that all eligible students are confirmed, bursary agreements are signed and students get their allowances,” said Pandor. Additional government funding of R7.166 billion in 2018 has been allocated to fund bursaries for students of poor and working-class families entering universities and Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges, with R4.581bn set aside for qualifying university students and R2.585bn for TVET college students. As a result, the allocation to NSFAS to support these students will increase from the R9.849bn in 2017/18 to R35.321bn in 2020/21. “This implies a need for improved efficiency and systems development at NSFAS. We have therefore allocated an additional R105 million over the Medium Term Expenditure Framework to assist NSFAS to increase and strengthen its administrative capacity “The Department of Higher Education and Training will ensure that the NSFAS systems are effectively integrated into the university systems and that NSFAS staff work closely with financial aid offices at institutional level to address any problems,” said Pandor. More than 400 000 potential students applied for NSFAS this year. NSFAS is still in the process of integrating the registration data from institutions with its own funding eligibility data. Pandor thanked all stakeholders for their support and said the implementation required significant co-operation between NSFAS and institutions. “My department has been working closely with NSFAS, Universities South Africa (USAf), the South African Colleges Principals Organisation (Sacpo) and student representative councils of universities and TVET colleges to ensure the effective roll out and implementation of the DHET (Department of Higher Education and Training) Bursary Scheme in 2018.” Daily News