Sibongile Mtshali was shot dead on July 26 last year. Mbuthuma and six men were arrested in December in connection with a spate of killings at the hostel. Mtshali is one of about 100 people who have been killed at the hostel in the past three years. Mbuthuma, 34, opened 
fire inside a room where Mtshali ran a tuck shop at the 
hostel, and then fled. Mtshali was shot in the head and chest and died at the scene. Hostel residents said on Tuesday that despite the small number of convictions for these murders, this was a sign that something was finally being done about violence at Glebelands. Some women at the hostel described the sentence as justice for the woman whose life was cut short. A resident who knew Mtshali said although nothing would bring her back, a life sentence was a consolation for Mtshali’s family and friends. Another resident said the arrests and convictions gave them hope that the hostel was soon going to become a safe place to live in. The Moerane Commission of Inquiry, investigating political killings in the province, recently heard through various witnesses that the hostel was a “breeding ground for hit men” and also heard how police were allegedly involved in the violence there. “We have seen too much bloodshed in this hostel and we cannot stand (to see) people being killed ,” said the resident. Major-General Bheki Langa, acting provincial police commissioner, praised the team of investigating officers who worked tirelessly on the case. He said police were blamed for not making arrests at Glebelands and were not given a chance to probe thoroughly. “Now our hard work yielded positive results and the sentence will serve as a warning to other criminals who terrorise hostel residents,” he said. The seven men arrested in December were nabbed in a series of raids as part of the police crime crackdown. Last year, the first hit man convicted for the killings at the hostel, Mxoleleni Bhani, was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of Sipho Ndovela who was shot dead at the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court in 2015. Ndovela was a witness to a murder which had taken place at the hostel. Daily News