“She didn’t run away or stand on the sidelines when it was easy to do so, but led with true dedication and kept the fires burning while her husband, Nelson Mandela, was in prison for over two decades. “She completely reshaped the narrative of what it meant to be a woman activist at the time, therefore paving the way for generations of women to come. It was her defiance and resilience that scared the apartheid government and kept them on their toes,” Khoza said. The ANC Women’s League in KZN has embarked on a social initiative aimed at tackling socio-economic challenges across the province to celebrate the life of Madikizela-Mandela. Dubbed Molo Makhelwane (hello neighbour), the programme aims to tackle issues including food insecurity, abuse of women, children, the elderly and vulnerable individuals. It will also look at access to education, child-headed households, access to government social assistance programmes and the challenges of the social distance between local leadership and community leaders. Weziwe Thusi, ANCWL provincial treasurer-general, said their goal was to build stronger, inclusive, constructive and socially cohesive communities through meaning- ful engagement with households. “Mama Winnie was a social worker and an activist all her life; she cared for the people especially the downtrodden, that is why we are dedicating the Molo Makhelwane to her honour. “We want to show the world that we remember her for making a meaningful contribution to society, something that is a true reflection of what she stood for,” Thusi explained. The Struggle icon died at the age of 81 last week after a long illness for which she had been in and out of hospital since the beginning of the year. Thusi described Madi­kizela-Mandela as a resolute leader, a woman of character and strength who stood with the people during difficult times and transcended character assassination by the apartheid government. “She was part of the leadership during a time when it was difficult to have a voice, but her voice was always loud. Her care, dedication and love for the people inspired all of us,” she said. Madikizela-Mandela was a warm leader who inspired the women in the league to emulate that love and kindness, she said. “Even if she didn’t know you, when you approached to greet her, she would respond with love and ask about your family. She was a kind person. “Whenever there was trouble, you would find her there, with the people. She was with everybody despite their socio-economic circumstances, because she cared for all of us,” Thusi said. The Durban leg of the launch would coincide with the Madikizela-Mandela memorial to be held on Thursday. “The memorial is an initiative of the women’s league, but we are calling on everyone to come celebrate her life, because she was the Mother of the Nation,” Khoza said. Daily News  