Durban - The Automobile Association (AA) said fuel prices will increase by around 49 cents per litre in May and not 92 cents as predicted earlier. In a statement, the AA said the mistake was due to an earlier closing off of the reporting period for fuel increases by the Department of Energy. The AA said they had commented on month-end fuel data that was not audited which was released by the Central Energy Fund (CEF), based on the figures provided up to April 25. According to the figures, the under-recovery and therefore the predicted increase at pumps of the fuel price was 92 cents a litre. The statement also said the Department of Energy based its new fuel price for May on the figures of April 24, which show an increase of 49 cents a litre for petrol, 60 cents for diesel and 52 cents for illuminating paraffin. The AA also said based on the figures, a litre of 93 octane unleaded petrol (inland) – which currently costs R14.23 a litre – will now cost R14.72. This is 23 cents higher than the previous record high of R14.49 in December last year. “Even with the revised data, these increases are significant and are attributable to a weakening Rand against the US dollar, and increasing international petroleum prices. We remain concerned about the increases, especially those to illuminating paraffin. Users of this fuel will be hit particularly hard as we head into the colder months where many households use this fuel for lighting, heating and cooking,” the AA said. They also said that despite the earlier closing off of the reporting period, the depreciation of the Rand over the past few days will impact of fuel prices. “Going into May, there is already an under-recover of 46 cents a litre. If the Rand doesn’t appreciate significantly against the US dollar, and if international prices don’t decrease, this will mean another increase into June,” they said. They also said the revised predicted price increases must also be seen against the backdrop of the substantial increases to fuel prices in April, which saw the addition of 52 cents a litre being added for the general fuel and Road Accident Fund levies. Daily News