Durban - eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede was hauled before the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities to detail what progress was being made in dealing with the recycling of graves. The commission is currently sitting at the Garden Court Marine Parade. Following the commission's previous dissatisfaction with the city's response, Gumede fronted the commission again. Gumede said steps have been taken to rectify the matter of recycled graves. According to the commission, some of the complaints received from the communities were that the right to access farms was denied by some farm owners under the pretext of private property. The historically forced removal policies of the past separated some people from the burial places of their ancestors. Also, the municipalities were running short of burial places and they have adopted the policy of recycling or cremation, and that the existing policy was discriminatory to the poor and indigent. Gumede said the municipality was aware of the burial site concerns and that there was no intention on the part of the municipality to discriminate against the poor. "We want to apologise to the people and assure them that we are working on putting our house in order. Families are advised to apply for the re-use of the graves of their loved ones after 10 years. We will be undergoing an aggressive campaign to educate them about the importance of consultation with the municipality. Even if they are financially challenged they must come to us for assistance," Gumede said. The commission indicated that for the first time of talking to the municipality on the same issue for about 10 years it was the first time that there was a report indicating progress. Thokozile Mkhwanazi-Xaluva, chairperson of the commission said they were contemplating going to court this time if the municipality had not given a satisfactory explanation as to what had been done to resolve the matter. "For the first time I'm satisfied with your responses. In the past there was a lot of ducking and diving instead of dealing with the issue. For the first time in about 10 years of talking to you about this, I can say there is light at the end of the tunnel," said Mkhwanazi-Xaluva. Daily News