Durban- Pemba the Olive Ridley Turtle s satelite tracking positions continue to amaze marine scientists. In the past month, it has revealed a lot about this species migration routes. On Monday, Pemba was 375 nautical miles (695 km) South South West of Cape Point. The South African Association for Marine Biological Research (SAAMBR) stated on its website that Pemba seems to be staying in the warm current. The underwater sea mounts in the area should provide plenty food. A seamount is a mountain rising from the ocean seafloor that does not reach to the water's surface (sea level), and thus is not an island, islet or cliff-rock. Last week Sunday, Pemba was  321 nautical miles South South West of Cape Point and has completed a full loop in her exploration of that particular area according to a tracking device fitted to her shell. Pemba was released from the iSimangaliso Wetland Park, on the KwaZulu Natal north coast, on March 9. According to the SAAMBR,  Pemba was admitted to the Two Oceans Aquarium turtle rehabilitation and release programme after a boat-based tour operator found her floating in Table Bay Harbour, Cape Town, in December 2014. Initial examination showed a fracture on the side of her shell, presumably from a boat’s propeller. Surgery was performed and the fracture was wired together. The fracture healed within a few months. Pemba was under constant veterinary supervision and was treated for the fractured shell, as well as a suspected lung tear. Numerous efforts to remove large volumes of air from within the turtle’s organs proved unsuccessful. The trapped air caused her to be buoyant so she could not dive down to find food. Treatment continued at the aquarium until September 2016, when she was moved to uShaka Sea World in Durban for further treatment. Staff at uShaka Sea World in Durban spent the next 16 months working with Pemba, who still had buoyancy and lung issues. Slowly her diving abilities began to increase. Pemba ate mainly crustaceans and could therefore not be released until she could dive deep enough to find food. Daily News