There were fears that the report, expected to be submitted by the end of this month to Premier Willies Mchunu, might not be made public after reports that the media were being refused access to transcripts of the hearings. Social movement Right2Know and some witnesses who testified before the commission expressed their concern in this regard. R2K organiser Mluleki Marongo said they expected transparency in all issues pertaining to the commission and the report, when it comes out, since the hearings were public. He feared a decision might have been made to keep the report under wraps. Marongo said R2K would write to Mchunu requesting clarity on when the public could expect the report. Thami Ngidi, the premier’s spokesperson, said Mchunu had not received the report as the commission had not yet completed its work. No decision had been taken not to release the report. “The premier must, not later than 21 days after the report has been presented to him, submit it to the provincial legislature through the speaker,” said Ngidi. Mchunu must then, within 21 working days of the date of receipt of the written comment or input of the relevant portfolio committee, release the report of the commission to the public, together with an indication by him whether, and to what extent, the findings or recommendations of the commission would be implemented. “The premier has every intention of complying with the provisions of the act and will take into consideration all the legal obligations that apply to the release of the report after its receipt, including the reported threats to the lives and safety of witnesses who gave evidence,” said Ngidi. Testify More than 60 people testified before the commission established by Mchunu in 2016 to investigate political killings that occurred since 2011. The hearings concluded oral evidence on March 12. The infamous Glebelands Hostel killings, in which 89 people have died since March 2014, was a focus of the hearings. While police were blamed for negligence in investigations and failure to restore safety at the hostel, senior police officials testified during the commission that most murders at Glebelands had not been politically motivated. Activist Vanessa Burger said journalists being refused access to transcripts raised fears that the findings might be suppressed or diluted for the sake of political expediency, so as not to have a negative impact on the 2019 elections. “Those who chose to testify publicly elevated the truth and the greater public good over their personal safety. “That was their choice and their right. It would be profoundly unjust to silence their voices. The names of witnesses who testified in-camera can be redacted, as can any part of their testimony that might disclose their identity.” Burger said commissions of inquiry were undertaken in the public interest, using public funds and with public participation; therefore all related information flowing from the process should exist in the public domain. She said the reports of past commissions, such as the Marikana and Truth and Reconciliation commissions, had been made accessible to the public and she expected the Moerane Commission to follow suit. Glebelands residents who spoke to Daily News yesterday said the risks taken by witnesses, some of whom were still under police protection, would be in vain should the report not be made public. The commission had not commented at the time of publication. Daily News