Mapaila said during the Chris Hani memorial lecture in East London at the weekend that the SACP would not campaign for the ANC if Zuma was not withdrawn. “We seek to transform society to lead it somewhere, and to get there we need incorruptible leaders. We can’t have that kind of face representing our value system. That is completely against what we stand for.” The ANC in KZN has maintained that it would use Zuma to campaign in the province. He was part of the party’s voter registration programme in the province last month. ANCYL provincial spokesperson Mandla Shange said the league would not heed ­Mapaila’s call. “We are not taking Solly ­Mapaila seriously. We have noted the anger and hatred he is displaying.” Shange insisted Zuma would campaign like any ANC member in good standing. “We need an effort from everyone when we campaign for the ANC,” said Shange. Isolating Zuma was equal to rewriting ANC history with the aim of deleting his participation in the liberation Struggle, he said. When contacted, Mapaila said he would not respond to Shange. The ANC in KZN  will today hold a meeting with all 11 party regions, with provincial interim committee (PIC) co-ordinator Sihle Zikalala outlining the election campaign strategies. The meeting would also focus on issues of unity between warring factions in the province ahead of next year’s elections. Prominent anti-Zuma ANC activist in the province, Laurence Dube, said that including Zuma in the party’s campaign programmes would be a breach of the party’s Nasrec conference resolutions. “The resolutions state that if you are facing such allegations the ANC should give you the space to sort out your problems.” Today’s meeting comes in the wake of tensions between rival factions in the region. The tensions were laid bare on Monday when members of the pro-Cyril Ramaphosa group in the ANC tried to force their way into a consultative meeting in Howick, only to be stopped by bodyguards. And on Friday, pro-Zuma members defied the party’s highest decision-making body by wearing ANC regalia to support the former president when he appeared in court. The video of the Howick incident went viral, prompting Zikalala to condemn the conduct of the bodyguards. Ramaphosa supporters accuse the regional leadership of masterminding the sidelining of other members to get a ­result that favours them at the conference. “We have decided that the conference should not take place this weekend as initially planned so that everything relating to organisation activity can be addressed,” Zikalala said yesterday. He cited Monday’s incident as one of the reasons behind the postponement. Recently, aggrieved ruling party members marched to the regional office three times in two weeks, calling for the resignation of the regional leadership, especially chairperson Mthandeni Dlungwane and 
secretary Mzi Zuma. They accused the pair of turning a blind eye to corruption in municipalities within the region, including Msunduzi municipality, which remains in financial difficulty. In addition to this, they claim that there is a plan to purge those who do not support Zuma. The infighting in the ANC in the province dates back to 
2015. Daily News