Skhumbuzo Gumede was stabbed in the chest about 100m from Intshisekelo High School in Inanda on Tuesday. He died outside the school gates. Members of the Matikwe community yesterday protested, calling for the police to arrest the suspect before they took the law into their own hands. Parent Sthembiso Mdletshe said his son wanted to be transferred to another school. Another parent, Jabulani Shezi, said he was also considering moving his son. According to witnesses, on Friday a teacher gave Skhumbuzo a list of pupils who had not done their work and asked him to call out their names. The teacher then left the classroom. While Skhumbuzo was reading out the names, another pupil said to be a bully, tore up the list. An argument allegedly ensued and then apparently became physical, with Skhumbuzo overpowering the other pupil. The other boy apparently threatened he would return and stab Skhumbuzo. He apparently caught up with Skhumbuzo as he walked to school on Tuesday morning. Before the protest, Skhumbuzo’s family had visited the relatives of the alleged killer. However, an elder was apparently not available to attend to them. Grieving father Jabulani Dludla said he wanted to avoid bloodshed in the community. He said he now feared for his older son’s safety because he attended the same school. Dludla was worried other pupils would seek revenge. “Our wish is for the police to arrest the suspect as soon as possible to avoid more bloodshed,” said Dludla. Although he wanted answers, he did not blame the boy’s family for his son’s murder. “His parents had nothing to do with his actions. I wanted an explanation from their son. I wanted his family to show the spirit of ubuntu by allowing us to understand what really happened, but no one has come back to us as promised,” he said. Skhumbuzo’s brother, Siyanda, a Grade 12 pupil, said Skhumbuzo had told him about the fight and alleged threats, but he had not been worried about his safety. “We usually walk to school together, but on Tuesday I left him behind. A few minutes after I entered my classroom, I was called to the gate and that is where I found my brother unconscious. “He had one stab wound on the left side of his chest,” Siyanda said. Skhumbuzo was declared dead on arrival at the local clinic. Education Department spokesperson Sihle Mlotshwa said officials had been sent to the school yesterday to offer support and investigate.“We have also sent psychologists.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of murder was being investigated and no arrests had been made. Daily News