Last year, the Daily News, with Varsity College, piloted this project and Hillcrest High School emerged as the Daily News High School Quiz winners. Based on the success of the regional competition, the quiz is now being rolled out nationally, with competitors consisting of school teams from each region - KwaZulu-Natal, Pretoria, Johannesburg and Cape Town. “We’re excited to collaborate with Independent Media again to host the National High School Quiz,” said Sane Ndlovu, IIE Varsity College national events and PR consultant. The quiz is open to all high schools in these regions. Schools will enter local quiz events with teams consisting of four pupils and a teacher or coach. Winners of the local quiz events will progress to the regional quiz, with the top two teams from each region then battling it out at the National High School Quiz. In the regional competitions, quiz questions will be based on content in the Daily News, Pretoria News, The Star and Cape Argus. The KZN region is divided into three districts: Pietermaritzburg, greater Durban area and North Coast. The top five schools from each district will compete at the KZN regional quiz. The winning school in KZN will win R20000, a bursary worth R75000 and R2000 for each team member and teacher. There are also prizes for the runner-up. The National High School Quiz will be held in Johannesburg at the Varsity College Sandton campus on September 27. The national winner will take home the National High School Quiz title, R20000 for the school, R5000 for each team member and R5000 for the team’s teacher or coach. The national runner-up will receive R10000 for the school, R2500 for each team member and R2500 for the team’s teacher/coach. National quiz questions will be based on content published on the IOL website. “This school competition represents a synergy between young people’s thirst for knowledge and Independent Media’s commitment to empowering them to be active, engaged and involved citizens,” said Greg le Roux, Group Executive: Events. Daily News