The provincial Department of Health yesterday confirmed that the Depo Provera injection was not available because the manufacturer had been unable to supply it. One woman, who did not want to be named, said she usually went to the family planning clinic in Dr AB Xuma (Commercial Road) Street in the CBD. She was told the injection was out of stock and that the government was “doing away with it”. “It’s been a month, if not longer, that the clinic has had this problem,” she said. A woman who went to a clinic in Phoenix experienced the same problem. She was told to get the injection from a pharmacy or a private doctor, where she would have to pay for the service. Another woman went to Addington Hospital where she was told they no longer offer the two-month contraceptive injection. A nurse apparently told her the injection was too expensive. Price The nurse suggested she try a different contraceptive, which she declined. “I went to the clinic at work where I had to pay for the injection. There, too, they told me that the price for the injection would go up,” the woman said. She said she paid R100 for it and the nurse said it would soon be increased to R150. One of the women said the situation was stressful and she could not understand why the government had not addressed the issue publicly. “All I want to know is, am I staying on the injection or not?” she asked. Certain Clicks pharmacies have Depo Provera available for R150, but the pharmacy would only offer the service to women on receipt of a prescription or a note from a doctor. The Marie Stopes Clinic - a sexual and reproductive health-care services provider - in Botanic Gardens Road in Durban provides the two-month injectable contraceptive for R120 and a three-month injection for R130. A consultation fee of R80 is charged. Provincial health spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda said although the department urged the youth to abstain from having sex, they urged them to use dual protection, which for women meant using contraceptives and condoms. Mafunda also said other contraceptives - such as oral contraceptives, Intrauterine Contraceptive Devices (IUCDs) and the implant Implanon - were available at clinics, but the injectable Depo Provera was out of stock. “The department will inform the public once it is available,” Mafunda said. Daily News