It was officially confirmed by Francois Rodgers, DA provincial chairperson, that soon after she was elected to the position, Graham had made recommendations to the federal executive (Fedex) for the removal of Heinz de Boer (deputy caucus leader) and Sharon Hoosen (member of the city’s executive committee) from Exco. This, insiders said, was an indication that she was on a witch-hunt and that was the reason for De Boer’s resignation. De Boer resigned about two weeks after he was elected deputy caucus leader, apparently after he was informed of Graham’s recommendation to Fedex. A member who asked to remain anonymous, said: “She is brazen. Her approach will only cause problems for the party. . “I, too, would not have been able to work with her. I would have resigned too. She has not settled in yet, but she wants to remove people. What message is she sending to the members and the public? Heinz is justified for resigning,” said the member Another member said it was strange how Graham had faced disciplinary action for bringing the party into disrepute about two years ago. “The party is mum on this. I understand that she was found guilty, but I don’t know what became of the sanction. She was meant to have been stripped of her membership for a certain period, but that never happened. “She had shared some sensitive information with a journalist. This is the same person who now decides to kick out comrades without any discussion or explanation,” said the member. Hoosen confirmed that she was informed by Graham herself that she intended to remove her from Exco. “Her request has been referred to the national leadership structure of the party for a decision. No reasons were given for the move,” she said. She declined to comment further. De Boer would not comment on the matter. Haniff Hoosen, the provincial chairperson at the time, confirmed there was a disciplinary action against Graham and that there was a proposed sanction against her. He, however, referred the Daily News to Rodgers for details. Graham defended her recommendation, saying it was every leader’s prerogative to select who to sit at Exco. She did not give any reason for her move. “It’s my prerogative, but yes, the timing was unfortunate,” she said. Graham said De Boer did not give reasons for his resignation. Rodgers said he was aware of the resignation, but was not aware of De Boer’s reasons. “The caucus leader did not give me the reasons. She indeed forwarded a recommendation to the federal executive to have the two removed. That can only happen once the Fedex chairperson approves the recommendation,” Rodgers said. He would not reveal much on the disciplinary action. “The case was investigated and she was found guilty and a sanction was imposed. “This was an internal matter so I don’t see the merits of discussing it with the public, suffice to say that she was found guilty,” he said. Daily News