Durban - Ethekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede has urged people and councilors to participate in the next year’s draft Integrated Development Plan (IDP) and Budget Hearing from July 1 to June 30, 2019. The IDP is available for comment and the public is urged to provide their input into this “important city strategy”, Gumede said in her opening remarks at Ethekwini exco on Tuesday. She said the plan was a key strategic document which guided and informed all planning, budgeting, management and decision-making related to delivering services and development in the municipal area. “This plan is a requirement of the Municipal Systems Act of 2000 and is reviewed annually. We will have our first budget hearing imbizo on Wednesday at Curries Fontuin stadium and we urge the public to attend. It is important that we adopt a People’s Budget that has input from our citizens. We will have community meetings, izimbizo and stakeholder engagements including radio programs. We will take the public opinions into consideration on the final document. I urge all councilors to participate in the hearings especially exco members irrespective of their party affiliation. It is important that we all work together for the good of our people,” Gumede said. Gumede also touched on the need for more to be done in celebrating the “rich history” of women in the struggle for liberation. She said there were many women in Durban who had played an important role that needed to be properly packaged. “As we are celebrating the life and times of Mama Albertina Sisulu and Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, we must ensure that the legacy and history of women like Fatima Meer, Phylis Naidoo, Margareth Mncadi, Mam Flo Mkhize, Bertha Mkhize, Dorothy Nyembe, Princess Magogo, and many others is properly archived and used effectively. These are some of the women who inspired many of us as young girls to participate in the struggle for liberation. They encouraged us to stand against the enemy and made us to be who we are today,” she said. Daily News