Durban - Police were searching on Thursday searching for the killers of a farmer murdered at Esenembe, just outside of oThongathi. Her husband was found alive with serious injuries and admitted to Victoria Hospital. They had been victims of a robbery at their farm, Spioenkop. Vegetable farmers Virathapushanam, 70, and Steve Govender, 72, had returned from the Verulam Market at 9.30pm on Wednesday night. Read: KZN farmer beaten to death after five-hour ordeal Steve’s brother Aroo Govender said they drove into the yard unaware that three robbers were lurking outside the home. “His wife got off the bakkie and went to the front door while he went to park at the back. When she opened the door, the robbers appeared and pushed her down to the ground. The robbers also attacked Steve when he got off the bakkie. They brought him into the house,” Aroo said. He said the robbers then ransacked the house. Aroo, who lives nearby on another farm, heard his dogs bark throughout the night but was not aware that his brother and sister-in-law were in distress. This morning, one of his workers was loading up his bakkie when he heard Steve’s faint calls for Aroo. “He had been calling my name. We placed a mat over the electric fence wires and sent my employee over into the yard to derail the driveway sliding gate,” he said. The men used an axe to break open a door, and a hacksaw to cut open the latch on the gate. “We found him on the kitchen floor in a bloodied state,” Aroo said. “His immediate reaction was ‘Please check for Vee’. We went into the room where we found her on the floor between the bed and wall. A pillow covered her body. She was tied up and a cloth was stuffed inside her mouth,” he said. “I gave my brother a glass of water and consoled him. We did not inform him of her death. He had a gash on his forehead. “His face was swollen and he was in shock. We had to get him medical attention.” There were bloodstains in all three bedrooms and a trail of blood led through the passage. Relatives had arrived and were mopping up the blood. The rooms were ransacked. Clothing and other items were strewn around. The extended Govender family have been living in the area for decades and belong to the Esenembe farming community. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala said a case of murder was under investigation. Daily News