#FindYourPacefor the event, on Sunday, May 20, by choosing from three walking routes (5km, 10km and 20km) or the all-new 9km fun run when you enter online. This year participants will walk/run alongside some of their favourite East Coast Radio presenters. Darren Maule will be doing the laid-back and family orientated 5km walk together with the rest of the Breakfast team. “I love how 30000 people can just get together for the biggest moving social in the country. It is just hard enough to get your heart rate up, but easy enough for everyone of every shape and size and age to be a part of. I love it,” said Maule. The Breakfast team have also recruited Stacey Norman and Sirshin Moodliar to walk the 5km route with them. Meanwhile, Jane Linley-Thomas and Thandolwethu are walking the 10km route and Bongani and Mags from the Drive team are doing the 20km walk and you can jog alongside Damon Beard in the 9km fun run. In another event first, the event T-shirt is a blank canvas for you to express yourselves on. Here is how to make your Big Walk T-Shirt your own: * Collect your T-shirt, race number and other goodies at Race Pack Collection at Moses Mabhida Stadium, from Thursday, May 17 until Saturday, May 19; * Whip out the paint, glitter, stickers, photos and other art supplies to decorate your own T-shirt; * Do not forget to pin your race number to the back of your outermost piece of clothing so that it is clearly visible at all times; and * Arrive at the Discovery East Coast Radio Big Walk on Sunday, May 20, ready to walk in your self-styled T-shirt. “Physical activity is important in leading a healthy lifestyle and we are proud that we have been getting Durban families walking for 10 years. “Parents bring their children along and this instils good habits in their little people who will grow up knowing the benefits of being active,” said Discovery’s head of sponsorships and experiential marketing, Iona Maclean. Entries close on Wednesday. Go to www.durbanbigwalk.co.za to #FindYourPace and register today. Daily News