Aziz Manjra, 45; wife Gori Bee, 45; son Rizwan, 10; daughter Mehranisa, 15; and an unnamed elderly woman died of severe burns and smoke inhalation when their double-storey home in Larch Road, Willowton, caught fire. The husband and wife worked as sales people at a local wholesaler and they had just moved into the house two weeks ago, relatives said. Amina Essop said Gori Bee was her younger sister and she last saw her on Saturday. She said Gori Bee’s 19-year-old surviving daughter had married and settled in Gauteng over the Easter weekend. She said the daughter was devastated and was on her way to Pietermaritzburg yesterday. The Daily News understands that the family had recently received a payout of more than R1million from the Road Accident Fund after Rizwan was knocked down by a car and broke a leg in Pietermaritzburg three years ago. “I’ve heard that there was a payout for Rizwan, but I don’t know how much it was. I don’t want to think that this has anything to do with money. My sister was battling to survive. We were happy when they bought the house. This is painful. We are planning to have the funeral as soon as possible according to our religion,” Essop said. “They moved into this house about two weeks ago. She was telling us that she was planning a house-warming party and would like the entire family to be present. “People in the neighbourhood, even though in hushed tones, were saying the house was petrol-bombed. We don’t know what to make of that, but hopefully they’ll be brave enough to share such information with the police because that could fast-track the investigation,” Essop said. Firemen battled the inferno and were able to pull the family out of the house. However, the older victims suffered severe burn wounds while the children, who were sleeping upstairs, died of smoke inhalation. They were all declared dead at the scene, according to ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak. “They were in a bad shape. When the paramedics arrived at the scene, they could not gain access to the house because of the blaze. “Local emergency services, including the Pietermaritzburg fire department, extinguished the fire,” he said. “The victims were found with fatal injuries. Unfortunately, there was nothing that could be done for them. The police will investigate the circumstances surrounding the cause of the fire,” Vermaak said. Sergeant Mthokozisi Ngobese, spokesperson for Umgungundlovu South Cluster police, said they were investigating arson and five counts of murder. “The community is shocked. We cannot say much at this stage until the investigation is completed, but we are definitely investigating arson,” Ngobese said. Ward 33 councillor Nkululeko Mkhize said he had no details of the fifth person who died. “This has been a tragic day and we pray that the Almighty gives them strength in this trying time. I met the forensics team and they had cordoned off the area. “They informed me that they are still processing the scene and the family will be briefed once their 
investigations are concluded, and they will determine whether to 
make the findings public,” Mkhize said. Daily News