Clayton Saville, the 32-year-old driver of a red Toyota Yaris, and passenger Cindy Radebe, 34, died at the scene in Shepstone Road on the night of March 27. Two back-seat passengers were seriously injured. The metro police officer and her two passengers sustained moderate injuries. According to Ipid, the SAPS and metro police should have reported the incident to them because a police officer was involved in the death of a civilian. National spokesperson Moses Dlamini said Ipid only heard of the incident through social media a few days ago. “We are going to be investigating the contravention of section 33 of the Independent Police Investigative Act against both metro police and SAPS because they failed to report the incident within 24 hours,” he said. Dlamini said Ipid would also be investigating the incident because it led to two deaths. Samantha Saville, Clayton’s mother, wrote on Facebook about the difficulties she faced with the police after her son’s death. She said she first discovered that a police van had crashed into her son’s car when she went to the Pinetown police station the next day after identifying his body. She said someone came forward with a video of the accident after her daughter posted about Clayton’s death on Facebook. The video shows a police van skipping a red light and crashing into the Yaris, which was turning right at the traffic light. “The accident scene wasn’t marked off. His car was towed behind the station and left for all to fiddle with,” said Saville. She said after consulting senior officials at SAPS, she was told there was something wrong with the case and was advised to consult an attorney.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Saville believes there was an attempt between the SAPS and metro police to cover up the accident as she was told by police that Ipid had taken over the investigation, when Ipid had not been informed. She told The Daily News yesterday that Clayton, a father of two, was a hard-working man whose life revolved around his family. “He was a loving child. He wasn’t a perfect angel, but he was a family man. He loved cars and he used to crawl under them with his grandfather,” she reminisced. Chris Radebe, Cindy’s brother, said the family was shattered because their mother fell ill and died after Cindy’s funeral. “She loved her family and her community,” he said, adding that Cindy, a mother of four, and Clayton were in a steel works business together. Provincial SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. He could not comment on the Ipid investigation. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad confirmed a metro police vehicle was involved in the accident, and that the driver was a policewoman who had just returned to duty. Sewpersad said metro police was conducting its own investigation. “The SA police should have alerted Ipid if they need to know. All procedures were followed,” he said. Sewpersad denied Saville’s allegation of a police cover-up. Daily News