Durban - The South African Police Service has warned strikers to behave accordingly during the strike by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU). Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said that they have said the National National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS), comprising of various government departments and law enforcement agencies, has put security measures in place because of the strike. “The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure appeals to those who will be participating in the strike, to respect the rights of those who choose not be participate in such actions and to refrain from intimidation or any other form of criminal behaviour. Those who will participate must do so within the confines of the law and in a responsible manner. Those disguising themselves as protesters but are joining only to cause mayhem and commit crime, will face arrest and prosecution,” Naidoo said. He said South Africa's economic hubs of Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal are expected to be the centre of protest actions when thousands of South African Federation of Trade Union members are expected to down tools and embark on the said nationwide strike on Wednesday. “Law enforcement agencies nationally have been advised of their roles and responsibilities particularly in respect of crowd and traffic management on Wednesday,” he said. He said also said that the mandate of the police demands them to lead the process of security gatherings and to allow all South Africans to exercise their democratic right to protest, picket, participate in a strike action without any fear of intimidation or any other forms of criminality. “Section 205 (3) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa directs that the South African Police Service prevent, combat and investigate crime, maintain public order, protect and secure the inhabitants of the Republic and their property, and uphold the constitution and enforce the law. The South African Police Service will continue to execute this mandate,” he said. Daily News