Some of the biggest challenges include pupils who are not on par with reading levels for their age group, a lack of reading resources and libraries, and little to no reinforcement of learning at home. Just over three million South Africans remain illiterate, according to Statistics South Africa. In KwaZulu-Natal, a little over 650 000 (25%) people have been grouped in this category. Stats SA defines literacy as “the ability to read and write in at least one language”. Steven le Roux, chief executive of non-profit organisation Project Literacy, said the main challenge was to ensure that all children were reading at the level of their age at all grades, especially in the foundation and intermediate phases. “The largest challenge we have is that children enter the school system already behind the benchmark of reading development. They are then playing catch-up throughout their school careers - and their lives. They are never able to close this gap,” Le Roux said. “We increasingly find that the youth and adults who come to our learning centres are people who are above Grade 9 in school level but have language, literacy and communication levels (especially in English) way below what it should be. They are unable to engage with their further education, and this can account for the very low throughput rate at FET and vocational colleges. They have also been given a false sense of their abilities as they have been progressed through a school system that tells them that they are at a certain level, but, in fact, their competencies are below that,” said Le Roux. Lizelle Langford, PR and fund-raising manager for the READ Educational Trust, pointed to reading resources, teacher absenteeism, large class sizes,and poor homework follow-through as concerns. “Very few rural schools give kids homework or check their homework. Pupils that do no homework spend less time on practising reading and writing and therefore develop at a much slower pace.” She said too many communities still did not understand the importance of preschool skills development before formal teaching. “Crèches are mostly a venue to feed and look after children of preschool age. Very few caregivers or parents implement games or activities that develop early learning skills,” she said. Spokesman for the Department of Basic Education Elijah Mhlanga said rural provinces had high illiteracy rates. “Limpopo and Eastern Cape are two examples where we have had to intervene in a big way.” Le Roux said “an honest review” of literacy needed to be done and resources made available for the government, non-profit organisations and private entities to tackle it. Daily News