Durban - And as parents and school transport drivers prepare for the afternoon pick up routine, Durban’s Metro Police has  some advice on how to make things flow a little easier. Senior Superintendent Parboo Supersadh said they noted a remarkable difference in traffic volumes during peak morning session. “Afternoon school traffic peak hours usually start from around 2pm. Parents and drivers should avoid obstructing roadways outside schools. It is also important to obey the scholar patrols’ instructions… sometimes people don’t heed these instructions and tend to overpower the patrols which can lead to disruptions.” He’s called on children who’re in the car to help keep their parents in check! “I remember when I was young and in the car with my mom, I’d point out any wrongdoing or if she left an indicator on...So I’m asking the kids to make sure their parents obey the rule of the road and follow correct drop off and pick up procedure at school, as well as listening to the scholar patrols.” Spokesman for the Automobile Association in SA, Leyton Beard, shared some pointers for making the journey to and from school in peak traffic more bearable. “It comes down to planning and routine. Have set time to leave house and ensure the kids know what this is. Make sure you have a morning routine that leaves enough time to get everything done. From wash routines, to breakfast and dressing into school uniforms,” he said. “It is very important that routines become habit and there is no chaos at home before you get into the car. If there is chaos before you leave, it will result in chaos on the road. As the adult you need to also be in tune with the children's needs.” He said the same applied to children who used public transport. “Ensure they are on time to meet their transport and don’t have to deal with anxiety of being late for school or cause delays for the school run. Know the schedules, know how reliable transporters are, have a Plan B should it not work out.” Here are some practical tips from Beard about managing kids on the road: Ensure your car is in a good condition to avoid disruptive breakdowns during the school run. If you’re low on fuel, fill up the night before and NOT in the morning before school. “You end up rushing and tense, resulting in the kids getting tense.” Ensure the kids are approved safe seats or booster seats Make sure buckling up becomes habit Us the journey as opportunity to talk to your kids about their day, let them do some light reading with a favourite book or listen to their favourite radio station. If you have younger children who may be in need of a bottle or a special toy, keep those on hand. Know your route and have an alternate route plan should there be delays on your regular route. Have a back up plan should something go wrong with your vehicle or with public transport To minimise stress in the car, the driver must obey all the road rules, keep of cellphones and other electronic devices, no applying make up or partly dressing in the car!