Durban - Political parties have condemned the incident that took place at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday night. have condemned the incident that took place at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday night. Kaizer Chiefs supporters became violent after Chiefs lost 2-0 to Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup. This also meant that Chiefs have lost out on their last chance at silverware in three seasons, under the leadership of Steve Komphela who resigned after the incident. Fans and police officers were injured in the incident. Mack Makhathini, KwaZulu-Natal Sport and Recreation spokesperson, said Kaizer Chiefs fans displayed "unsportsmanlike" behaviour. “As the KZN Department of Sport and Recreation we don’t condone the unsportsmanlike behavior displayed by the Kaizer Chiefs fans. We call upon the police to arrest those who incited violence in the stadium," Makhathini said. He said the department also appeals to supporters not to put other supporters lives at risk. "We also appeal to the supporters to refrain from putting soccer lovers’ lives in danger. MEC Bongi Sithole-Moloi has called upon the fans to cascade their frustrations through correct structures within their clubs,” he said. The DA however, said the Premier Soccer League and other bodies should provide answers about what happened. Tsepo Mhlongo, DA Shadow Minister of Sports and Recreation said stadium management, football marshalls, the PSL and the South African Police Service must provide answers on why security measures they had in place failed, which resulted in fans invading the pitch. “It is not acceptable that a family spectator sport regularly degenerates to violence that threatens the well-being of everyone, because the PSL fails to take stern action against hooligans who perpetuate violence,” Mhlongo said. He said the PSL should provide concrete plans on interventions they will be implementing to stop violence at football matches and ensure safety of spectators and officials. “Parliament must fulfill its role and hold sporting bodies, such as the PSL, accountable to ensure that South African stadiums do not become death traps for sport loving fans,” he said. Nhlanhla Msimang, IFP sport and recreation, said it is unfortunate for us as South Africans to have witnessed that barbaric act by fans. “It is unacceptable for them to behave that way,” Msimang said. “It is also unfortunate for South African sport, we don’t deserve it. As the IFP we condemn what happened,” he continued. He said those who can be identified should be made an example of. “We’d also like to say sorry to the families of those who were injured and we hope they recover quickly,” he said. Reports suggest that all those who were injured were treated at Addington Hospital and have been discharged. Daily News