Mogoeng was speaking on the sidelines of the Conference of Constitutional Jurisdictions of Africa’s 9th Session of the Executive Bureau at Zimbali, north of Durban. Justice Mogoeng said the chairperson of the commission, Deputy Justice Raymond Zondo, had made it clear he was not aware of any commission tasked with investigating something as serious as the investigation into corruption and state capture that was able to complete its mandate within six months. “He indicated that six months might be just too short a period to enable this commission of inquiry to be able to execute this mammoth task to its completion.” Justice Mogoeng said President Jacob Zuma should have sought legal advice to understand his mandate as the statutory authority of the constitution to determine whether the terms of reference in the commission into state capture were narrowed or broadened. “All I know is that the constitutional responsibility to determine the terms of reference rests with the president, as the constitutional statutory authority that has to determine the terms of reference. “It is neither for the chief justice nor for the chairperson of the commission to determine the terms of reference.” He added that he was not aware if Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane had been approached to assist with determining the terms of reference, after she had made herself available to assist in the process. Mkhwebane suggested that the terms of reference be broadened. “I would imagine that in the process of determining the terms of reference it is open for the president to approach anybody who he thinks has the expertise to assist to contribute in shaping up the terms of ­reference appropriately,” Justice Mogoeng said. The critical importance of the commission was that it would be seized with a responsibility to investigate any alleged corruption and state capture, he said. “The outcome is not known  We will all have to wait for the outcome of the commission of inquiry and take it from there,” said Justice Mogoeng. The terms of reference have become an issue, with criticism levelled against those, including Mkhwebane, who have called for them to be broadened and not only focused on former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report into state capture. However, Justice Mogoeng said that with President Jacob Zuma aware of Madonsela’s report, and with the benefit of legal advice, he would know what his powers in relation to the appointment of the inquiry and the determination of the terms of reference were. Daily News