Durban -  The husband of the woman who faked her baby's kidnapping pleaded with court on Monday to have mercy on his wife. Testifying during the mitigation of sentence the man said his wife had learnt the error of her ways and pleaded with the court not to send her to jail. His wife is facing charges of fraud and defeating the ends of justice when she claimed that her baby was kidnapped during a hijacking pleaded guilty last November. She had told the court that she knew that her child was well and in the possession of her boyfriend who is the biological father when she opened a case with the police on March 10 last year. During the court proceedings she held her head down and played with her hands and occasionally wiped tears, while her husband tried all he could to convince the court to deviate from a prison sentence. The man told the court that that he trusted his wife and although there were already media speculations around the child's paternity after his wive's arrest, she still did not come clean.
"I did not believe those media reports. I thought they were not true," he said. He said after his wife made her first court appearance it was only then that she admitted to him that the child was actually not his and that she had lied about the hijacking and the child's disappearance. He said he had not pressured her to tell the truth, but did so voluntarily. He said his wive's actions were probably fuelled by the fact that the child did not resemble the other three children she had with him. "She had not wronged me in the past. I forgave her because this was her first mistake," he said. He said the family had since met and discussed the issue and arrived at the resolution that what she did was a mistake. "We now live a normal life. I am a man who is guided by the Bible and it taught me the importance of forgiveness. I have forgiven my wife," he said The man said he and other family members had supported her in court and even paid her bail. "I am unemployed. If my wife went to jail, the family will be left without a bread winner and the children would not be able to go to school," he said. Daily News