He said there were no major crimes at the beach. The most common crime was the snatching of cellphones and handbags. In December, a case of rape and sexual assault was reported at a beach. Sewpersad said there were no drownings on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day. However in uMkomaas, south of Durban, a 32-year-old man drowned and an 8-year-old boy was taken to hospital when a dingy capsized.  “ER24 paramedics were called by members of the community who apparently witnessed the dingy capsize. An 8-year-old boy was rescued by a man from a nearby boat and brought to the shore,” said ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring. He said they assessed and treated the boy, and took him to a private hospital. Lifeguards and paramedics found the man’s body a few metres from shore.  Paramedics tried to revive him. but after 45 minutes of trying, declared him dead. In Durban, the Daily News spoke to childminders who said a number of children had gone missing but could not give exact figures. “The numbers grow every year,” said Durban Lifesaving Club lifeguard Rodney Dlomo. He said they often worked from 8am until 7pm, with others starting later to finish at 10 pm. He said they provided back-up to the municipality’s lifeguards and would often help when they needed assistance.  Dlomo said they had assisted with the mass rescues of more than 10 people at the Bay of Plenty and Snake Park Beach in the past two days. They also provided back-up to lifeguards at Wedge Beach, one of the busiest spots on South Beach. Dlomo, who has been a lifeguard for 22 years, said he expected the beaches to be busy until about January 10. Numbers started dwindling closer to the time school re-opened. Soweto resident Sibongile Miya was one of the thousands who flocked to the beachfront yesterday. The mother to four children said they had been coming to Durban for the past three years. “We always have fun when we are here,” she said. Miya said she was at a gospel concert tribute for Sfiso Ncwane on New Year’s Eve and spent the day at the beach with her children yesterday. They plan to return home today. As people were having fun yesterday, beachfront vendors were also eking out a living. Vendor Christopher Bhengu said he was spending day and night at the beach. “Sales are normally best when it is hot. But because it is cloudy they are not as good,” he said.  Most of his customers were those who had slept overnight at the beach.  Bhengu, who has been a vendor for the past 18 years, said with the high number of people at the beaches the biggest challenge was making sure people did not steal goods.  “The people who cause the most trouble are the drunk ones. I had to stop someone stealing water from me,” Bhengu said. Daily News