This is according to energy expert Chris Yelland in response to the announcement at the weekend of a new Eskom board, headed by Telkom board chairperson Jabu Mabuza, with Phakamani Hadebe as the acting group chief executive. They have been hailed as the heroes needed to rescue the parastatal. The shock announcement was made by the government on Saturday in a bid to restore confidence in the company, improve its financial position and restore its operational performance. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, in less than a month at the helm of the ANC,  said the new board was part of his intervention which he felt would restore Eskom as an important contributor to the economy. Ramaphosa, as chairperson of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on SOE Reform, held a high-level meeting on Friday with President Jacob Zuma, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba. “As a key enabler of economic growth and social transformation, any further deterioration of Eskom’s financial and operational conditions could have a severe impact on the country,” said Ramaphosa. The company has been 
facing several challenges including a weak financial position, declining revenues and governance failures. Ramaphosa directed the board to appoint a permanent Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer within the next three months and to immediately remove all Eskom executives who are facing allegations of serious corruption and other acts of impropriety, including Matshela Koko and Anoj Singh. “Government further calls on all Eskom employees and other stakeholders who may have evidence of wrongdoing to bring this to the attention of law enforcement agencies so that culprits can be brought to book,” he urged. But, it is going to take a lot more than appointing a new board to turn things around at the energy parastatal, said Yelland, adding it could take up to a decade before the state power utility is out of the red. He welcomed the presidential announcement of a new 13-member board and a remedial plan of action to stabilise management at Eskom. “This is the first time that we are seeing credible people with a long reputation of serving South Africa on Eskom’s board. I am talking about people like Nelisiwe Magubane, Rod Crompton and so on,” Yelland said. But it would be a mistake to think that, by making the new appointments,  all the work is done. “The job has not yet started. We have not yet stepped from the brink. The fact that we have a new board is a positive sign but now there need to be short-, medium- and long-term strategies and plans,” he said. Applauded He applauded Mabuza and Hadebe’s appointment. Yelland credited Mabuza for the strong turnaround that telecommunications giant, Telkom, made in recent years. “Eskom’s business model currently does not fit to purpose. It needs to increase sales and decrease cost. It also needs to increase public participation and list the parastatal on the stock exchange and have the public invest in Eskom as stakeholders. “He [Mabuza] did exactly this at Telkom that also used to be a state-owned enterprise. It surely cannot be done overnight and could take 10 years But, if we don’t start now, we will never achieve it,” Yelland said. Bonang Mohale, CEO of Business Leadership SA (BLSA), said they were confident that, with the appointment of the new board members, South Africa would be able to regain its investment grade credit rating and pull investors back to South African shores. “We strongly believe that this step puts us in good stead to achieve, among other key priorities, stability, fiscal discipline and consolidation,” Mohale said. Standard & Poor’s Global Ratings (S&P), one of the big three global credit rating agencies, said it was “very concerned” about the liquidity situation at Eskom and that the parastatal faced a debt default. S&P downgraded the power utility’s long- term credit rating in November. A month after the S&P downgrade, the Helen Suzman Foundation filed court papers to sue President Jacob Zuma and the Gupta brothers for billions of rand that were allegedly unlawfully paid to the family’s businesses by Eskom. The foundation, along with Sygnia CEO Magda Wierzycka, filed the papers at the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. Respondents Other people included in the application included the president’s son, Duduzane. The respondents in the matter included Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown, Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane and Eskom. The amounts the foundation was seeking ran into billions of rand and included payments made to the family’s coal company Tegeta Explorations and Resources. The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) also welcomed the new board, saying it had a “colossal task” to rescue Eskom from “bankruptcy and implosion, which would have potentially catastrophic consequences for consumers, workers and economic activity as a whole”. Patrick Craven, Saftu spokesperson, said they hoped this new approach would set a precedent for all the other state-owned enterprises whose directors and executives have presided over similar actions as those at Eskom, to be dismissed, replaced and prosecuted. “The same approach must also be taken to public institutions like the NPA, the Hawks, Sars and others, which have prevented legal action against those against whom there is prima facie evidence of corruption and other criminal offences. “They have, in effect, become accessories in the crimes for which they are refusing to prosecute the offenders, and they too must now be dismissed and brought before the courts.” Daily News