Durban - Residents of uMlazi's U-Section have decided to take it upon themselves to move into a block of government flats they claim were promised to them by a local ward councillor. As a result, they have been evicted at least three times in the past two weeks.  The evictions have, however, not changed their resolve because they said they would only leave the flats in coffins. Sipho Mbhele, one of the 28 people who moved into the building last month, said ward councillor Sindisiwe Dlamini promised that they would get the flats as soon as they were complete.  “They (contractors hired by eThekwini Municipality) finished building the flats in November,” Mbhele said.  More than three weeks went by without any communication from the councillor, he said.  “We started getting information that people were buying flats from the councillor. We then decided to move in,” he said. Mbhele said Dlamini called the police to evict them.  “They evicted us on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day, of all days,” he said. He also said some were kicked out on the Day of Goodwill. Mthokozisi Chiliza, who is disabled, said he was also promised a flat.  He felt this was his only chance to live a normal life and be less reliant on people. “If it wasn’t for my disability, I would have also forced my way in.” Chiliza doubted that this matter would be resolved soon.  Other residents vowed, despite evictions, to continue living in these flats.  “They will have to drag us out in coffins,” one said. Dlamini denied making any promises to people and called them invaders.  She declined to comment further, suggesting the Daily News contact the local ANC offices instead. Mbulelo Baloyi, the Department of Human Settlements provincial spokesperson, said they could not comment because they were not directly involved in the matter. He said the department provided funding for housing projects.  “It is the municipalities' job to determine who are bona fide recipients and to allocate houses.  "We are not privy to how the allocation process worked,” he said. Mondli Mthembu, head of Human Settlements at eThekwini Municipality, said he was aware of the issue, but said the council was in recess until January 22. However, he said because of the nature of the problem the city should deal with it by January 13.  “When I return to work, I will talk to all the stakeholders. This will include the ward councillor, the people who were promised places and those who invaded these flats,” he said.  Daily News