Seeff Properties general manager Terry Swart said on Tuesday that the general sentiment of softening demand in KZN pointed to a marginally more cautious market.  “However, while our major bond partner Ooba reports an approximately 10% decline in the number of bonds granted over the past year, the value of the bonds granted has only decreased by approximately 4% in the same period,” said Swart. “During 2017, the Seeff KZN group reported a 9% growth in sales over 2016. This momentum is primarily driven by the availability of stock being provided by developers in the areas of Ballito, Umhlanga, Queensburgh and Hillcrest.” He said Ballito was a fast-expanding area and the market overall was growing, posting a record sales month in October, with sales of more than R53 million. Swart said KZN developments had seen properties such as Zululami having exceptional sales at its launch, with this pattern repeated in developments by the Balwin Group.  “It is forecast that in 2018 these recently launched developments will come on stream, together with additional developments such as Zimbali Lakes, to cope with increasing buyer demand,” he said. “Last year the Umhlanga market was characterised by exploding development in the Sibaya area and central Umhlanga, where upper-end apartments and developments such as Pebble Beach have sold out.  “The recently launched freehold development Gold Coast Estate of just over 200 freehold sites is 80% sold out. This development drive activity will continue momentum into 2018.”   Swart said Richards Bay was also bucking the trend with acceptable growth with prices of vacant land rising sharply at close to 80% year-on-year, while sectional title and freehold units showed growth of 3.65% and 10%, respectively. Promise  “The Richards Bay Port and Industrial Development Zone held much promise for the local economy,” he said. Queensburgh would also see at least four new developments priced between R850 000 and R1.8 million per unit take off during 2018. The Upper Highway area and Hillcrest, in particular, have seen extensive development recently in the market below R2 million per unit. Wakefields real estate chief executive Myles Wakefield said property prospects had brightened for 2018.  “We envisage the volume of sales in KZN to increase across the board on the back of good global growth and a new ANC president.  “We believe these two factors in particular will play a strategic part in rebuilding confidence and improving economic fundamentals,” said Wakefield. “The state of the rand matters in property. We are already seeing our currency improve by about 15% against most foreign currencies. Put that together with a decrease in the petrol price and talk of possible interest rate decreases, these factors spell good news for property owners, buyers and the property market in general.  “Markets go in cycles and there are pleasing signs that this renewed confidence will accelerate activity in the property market for 2018.” Daily News