Little Khulubuse Phahla had been burnt when a petrol bomb exploded in their KwaDukuza (Stanger) home on July 7. Khulubuse had suffered extensive burns to his face, arms, torso and legs. But thanks to a groundbreaking procedure by burns specialist consultant Dr Alex Andrione, Khulubuse is on his way to living a normal life. The procedure, the first of its kind in the world, allows for epidermal (skin) cells to be “airbrushed” on to a patient’s skin. Andrione, an Italian-born doctor contracted to the hospital, put years of theory into practice with outstanding results on patients thus far. Speaking to the Daily News, Andrione joked that all he did was medicine the “South African way”. “If you do not have a plan, you make a plan. That is the South African way,” he said. Andrione has been consulting at the hospital’s Burns Unit since 2007. He said South Africa did not have a skin bank, so a solution had to be found. When a patient is admitted to the Burns Unit, skin samples are taken using a small device. Inside the device, the skin is put into a saline solution and treated. After a few days, the cells are ready to be sprayed on to the patient, using plasma, which acts as a glue - sticking the cells to the skin. “The cells are airbrushed on to the patient and it takes only a few minutes,” Andrione said. Previously, a biopsy would be conducted to take a small section of skin from a patient and then it would be treated in a lab. After treatment, it would be placed on to the patient, but this would take longer and cost much more. Andrione said just to cover 20% of skin, the procedure would cost R1 million. With his new procedure, it costs less than R10 000. This procedure allows the skin to regenerate faster. The patient will then stay in hospital for a few weeks before being discharged. Andrione said after three months, the patients return for check-ups and laser therapy. This, he said, was a life-long treatment process. Khulubuse also had a tracheostomy to treat damage to his windpipe. He is now able to move about like other infants of his age. Ngubane said: “I am just truly grateful to Dr Andrione.” Another patient, Leeboy Arendse, was transferred from a hospital in Chatsworth after he was set alight in a robbery. Arendse, 39, who also underwent a tracheostomy, suffered burns to more than 5% of his body. “Dr Andrione has given me a second chance. I am very grateful,” the father of two said. Arendse is expected to be discharged in the next few months. Dr Daan den Hollander, head of the KwaZulu-Natal Burns Unit, said they were very pleased with the success of the procedure. “This was theoretically possible and we are proud of the accomplishments of Dr Andrione,” he said. Daily News