Although the Daily News reported concerns by teachers’ unions about some section 21 schools still without textbooks and stationery, the department was mum on whether the problem had been resolved. Kwazi Mthethwa, Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana’s spokesperson, said on Tuesday the department was ready to assist schools experiencing such problems. He said the department was ready to share the excitement of the first day of school with the province’s pupils. “For new pupils, the first day of school would be what they had been waiting in anticipation for, while the returning pupils’ first day would be the beginning of a new chapter of their academic journey with new challenges and new sets of goals to achieve,” said Mthethwa. He said the strategies introduced in the department’s Provincial Academic Plan, and the culture of performance that came with Dlungwana when he joined the department in 2016, had produced good results. “His (Dlungwana’s) culture of performance demands that everyone must do their part. This system demands that we cannot fall asleep in our respective jobs and expect improvement and good results. Hard work begins on day one and that is exactly what we expect and we are ready for the new academic year,” he said. Mthethwa explained that the formulated plan and its successful execution filtered through to make sure that every stakeholder and every department official played their part. “This was evident in the improvement of the matric results for the past two years,” he said. “We have the capacity to attend to any of the glitches that may arise on day one. We are confident that each and every department official will contribute to the success of the first day of school,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Five-year-old Cole van Niekerk of Manor Gardens Primary School is comforted by his mother, Penny van Niekerk, as he cries on his first day of school. Video: Se-Anne Rall Teachers’ unions also said they were ready to begin classes at the ring of the first bell, although there were still schools without textbooks and stationery. “We urge the MEC and his department to ensure that this problem (the lack of textbooks and stationery) is addressed so that these schools would also have an equal footing with other schools,” said Nomarashiya Caluza, Sadtu provincial secretary. Thirona Moodley, the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa spokesperson, said it was unfortunate the schooling year got off to a bumpy start for schools reportedly without stationery and textbooks. “Schools in the Umzinyathi district have had textbooks delivered, however, they await stationery delivery. A similar scenario exists in other districts. The extent of the non-delivery is unknown and it is disappointing to note that some schools will not be in a position to commence the school year in earnest on the first day.” She said the department must shoulder the responsibility for the non-delivery of textbooks and stationery as payment for norms and standards was delayed. “It has been reported that some schools have received norms and standards funding only on Wednesday (on Tuesday),” said Moodley. Meanwhile, on Tuesday some parents were still looking to place their children in schools. After being rejected by their preferred schools, parents resorted to visiting the department’s late admissions office at the Port Natal building in Umbilo, hoping officials would make the schools admit 
their children. Instead, parents were told to wait until schools finalised their admission processes on Wednesday to get an indication of  where pupils could be placed. Frustrated parents who were there on Monday and on Tuesday said they were told to inquire again on Wednesday. They said this meant their children would miss their first day of school, but most said at this point they would be grateful to get a place at any school. A parent from KwaMashu, who did not want to be named, said she had wanted her daughter to attend a good school in Glenwood, but she was not accepted and was now stranded. Mthethwa said each year the issue of late admissions became a problem. He assured parents that no pupil would be left without a school and said that late admissions were caused by parents whose applications got rejected at their school of choice. Daily News