“The first dry spell to affect growers recently occurred in the 2010/11 season,” said Richard Nicholson, the SA Canegrowers’ economic research manager. “This was followed by an exceptional season in 2013/14. However, with a severe El Niño event forming late in 2014 the industry was severely affected by one of the worst droughts in 90 years. This resulted in the significant drop in yields, with some growers experiencing a drop of more than half.” Nicholson said the drought had affected growers’ businesses and it would take them at least four to five normal seasons to recover. He said there was no real support for growers during this time. “Some government support was made available to SSGs (Small-Scale Growers), but other than that LSGs (Large-Scale Growers) did not receive any real support. “The South African sugar industry, made up of growers and millers, set up their own support mechanisms for SSGs like the Supplementary Payment Fund and the Vat Flat Rate mechanism for SSGs that are not VAT vendors,” said Nicholson. “Other funding has come through in various projects (co-ops, fertiliser and contractor projects) from the government that have been implemented through the SA Sugar Association for the SSGs. “There is also the recapitalisation funding that has been made available from government to land reform growers. This was done through the successful business plans which SA Canegrowers’ assisted these growers with.” SA Canegrowers’ said that in 2016/17, there were 1289 LSGs (including Land Reform) of whom 1198 delivered, 20203 SSGs of whom 10594 delivered and 20 Miller-Cum-Planters (MCP), which delivered in that season. The majority of both LSG and SSG growers are situated in KwaZulu-Natal. The North Coast and Midlands areas had the most LSGs at 22% and 24% of the total, respectively. The Zululand region is home for the majority of SSGs, making up 47% of the total. The next biggest proportion of SSGs are based in the Amatikulu area at 22.3% of the total. For the total tons of cane delivered, the LSGs (including Land Reform Growers) produce 88% of the total crop, whereas the SSGs produce 10% of the crop annually. The MCPs produce 25% of the total crop. The Irrigated North - which includes, Pongola, Malelane and Komatipoort - produces an average 30% of the crop, whereas the dryland production areas of KZN produce the remaining 70%. The association said its members faced a multitude of issues, such as lower returns to cane farming, which had contributed to growers becoming more diversified. “The increasing costs of inputs outpacing the increases in revenues forces growers to become efficient with their inputs and management systems. “The shortage of labour, especially for cane cutting, as well as the lowering labour productivity has become a concern for growers,” said Nicholson. The topography where sugar cane was grown made the industry labour intensive, he said. “Machinery is not always an option, therefore all growers face labour issues - their own labour force or contracted labour. One of the major issues highlighted recently is falling labour productivity, but increasing costs of labour through sudden increases in the minimum wage. The minimum wage is not a bad policy, as it tries to ensure all labourers are fairly remunerated; however, the sudden implementation of these policies will affect all growers and their profitability,” Nicholson said. SA Sugar Association spokesperson Cedric Mboyisa said this year it was anticipated that 1.975 million tons of sugar would be produced. There was currently a global oversupply of between 4 and 7 million tons. Daily News