Justin Maduray, 32, was seated in his 2007 model Golf outside his friend Tabrez Moorad’s home in Redfern Crescent on Tuesday when he was hijacked by three men. “They screamed ‘Out, out, out!’ and ‘Give us the keys!’. One of the men got into the back of the car by stepping on his colleague seated on the passenger seat. I could see the guy looking at us through the back window as the car drove off. I was in shock and all I could do was watch my car disappear in front of my eyes,” said Maduray, a construction company education officer. Moorad said people were walking to the Redfern Crime Alert community meeting. One of them saw the hijacking taking place and flagged down a patrolling police vehicle. Moorad said a car chase ensued through Phoenix, ending when the hijackers crashed into a stationary vehicle, struck roadside traffic signage and mowed down a traffic light pole at the Duffs Road intersection. Glen Naidoo, private security company KZN VIP Unit spokesperson, said two of the hijackers jumped out of the car and fled. One of the hijackers was found dead in the back seat. Naidoo believed he died from the impact of the crash. A firearm was also found. A  motorist, who did not want to be named, said the Golf was centimetres away from colliding into his Honda and a silver Polo travelling behind him near Mahatma Gandhi Hospital on Phoenix Highway. He had his wife and child in the car. “Thank God there was a taxi that went in front of me. Instinctively, I swerved into it. The Polo driver swerved on to the pavement to avoid contact with the Golf. Before I could say anything I saw two police cars making their way through traffic in pursuit of the Golf,” the motorist said. An emotional Maduray said: “Residents heard my car had been found in Duffs Road. I was elated. When we arrived on the onramp to Duffs Road I noticed debris on the road and the traffic was backed up. I then caught a glimpse of my extensively damaged car. I worked hard, saved and bought this car. I was disheartened.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of hijacking and culpable homicide had been opened at the Phoenix police station. No arrests have been made. Naidoo said the WhatsApp groups have bolstered the neighbourhood watch groups that have become part of 
the crime prevention process by creating awareness of 
crime trends. Daily News