Molewa said the Provincial Task Team (PTT) was balanced as it was not created along ­factional lines. She also brushed off similar concerns raised about the Free State task team. The list of 16 members raised eyebrows after ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule released it this week. The list consists of 11 people aligned to the suspended provincial executive committee (PEC), and only five who are against provincial chairperson Sihle Zikalala’s leadership. The Free State Province PTT had also been rejected by disgruntled ANC members, who said it was made up of people supporting Magashule, who was the chairperson of the disbanded provincial leadership. “We are putting (forward) an interim committee, not a list of groupings, as comrades work as a collective to reunite the organisation,” Molewa said. Composition She said it did not matter who was in the task team, and she did not expect the NWC meeting on Monday to change the composition of the PTT. “What the officials and the team will put to the NWC is the operational plan going forward, as the NEC decision cannot be reversed by the NWC,” she said. She said the KZN PTT would meet today to discuss the roadmap and how it was going to function. A provincial source said a protest would be staged in KZN if the PTT was not reconstituted to reflect a more balanced representation. Magashule and the Free State PEC belong to a faction that supported defeated ANC presidential candidate Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, while the other side supported ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. The disgruntled faction in KZN was also enraged that all five top provincial leaders were in the interim structure, which is meant to facilitate a fair and free rerun of the nullified 2015 provincial conference. A member of the PTT said only the NWC, which is meeting on Monday, could deal with the composition of the PTT, and possibly overturn it. “It (the PTT) gives us space to correct the wrongs, but the anger among the members over its composition is overwhelming.” Another PTT member said Magashule did not explain why the PTT was unbalanced. Daily News