“SmartXchange incubates businesses focusing on the media information communication technology and electronics sector (MICT). It currently incubates 62 SMMEs, 42 in Durban and 20 in the Port Shepstone region,” Naidoo said. He said SmartXchange’s next focus was to create high-growth companies. “The other challenge is that if you have government as the sole client, and they do not pay during the period they said they would pay in, SMMEs then have difficulties in that regard. “We’ve now decided to focus on innovation, which is the creation of new solutions within the incubated companies. We started the concept of design thinking as a tool to stimulate innovation. We now have an excellent partnership with the Department of Science and Technology, which to date has 19 innovations emerging from SmartXchange.” The concepts are in various stages, with some being completed and some still being developed. They will all be showcased in Durban in the last week of April. “Local governments need to be responsive with their new infrastructure programmes. When they want to stimulate development, they should determine the technology requirements to attract investors, or enable development to get bigger take off. Infrastructure packaging should be smart,” he said. Naidoo said the challenges they had with SMMEs was time management and financial management. “To a certain extent it may be true that some SMMEs may lack business acumen, and that is where we come in as an incubator. The gaps in them may include poor marketing skills, or financial or entrepreneurial skills in general. We fill that gap. There are many SMMEs that do not have those gaps and are doing exceptionally well.” UKZN entrepreneurship and small business development expert Lindiwe Kunene said: “South Africa has become so reactionary that we encourage people to start businesses while they lack business acumen. We have countless institutions offering business plan services, but not many of those that teach people how to run and sustain them.” Kunene said that the solution to resolve this problem was a model which included training embedded with mentoring and experience. “We would also need a proper environment that supports the operations of the SMMEs,” she said. SmartXchange said that they planned to expand their reach this year, having received requests from the Richards Bay Industrial Development Zone, uMsunduzi Municipality and an intent to go to Newcastle. Daily News