This was according to social worker Lydia Watson’s testimony on Tuesday in the Durban Regional Court during sentencing proceedings. She handled the case when the woman was arrested and supervised the child’s care. She testified that the mother, who is not being named to protect the identity of her minor child, told her she had a sexual relationship with her husband and her boyfriend, who is also her co-accused. The mother and boyfriend, the baby’s biological father, were arrested soon after the mother claimed she was hijacked and her baby taken outside the City View shopping centre, in Mathews Meyiwa Road (First Avenue), Greyville, in March. The boyfriend’s matter is being heard separately. “Being in a polygamous marriage, she told me she missed her husband’s affections and sought them elsewhere. “She had met the man when she went shopping and fell pregnant within two months of the relationship. “She told me that she ended the relationship when she discovered that she was pregnant. When the baby was born, she realised the baby had physical features that were different from hers and her husband. “She contacted the biological father and started sending him pictures of the baby,” Watson testified. Watson said she handed the child over to the biological father and later regretted her actions, wanting to come clean. On Monday, the woman’s husband pleaded for the court’s mercy to not send his wife to jail. And on Tuesday, Thembelihle Shange, a probation officer, told the court that a jail term would not be a suitable sentence for the mother of four. Shange had recommended a wholly suspended sentence, correctional supervision or a fine as an appropriate sentence. She felt sending the mother to jail would adversely affect the well-being of the four children since they would be without a provider. The woman’s mother also testified, saying that although she was shocked and “nearly died” when she learnt that her daughter had lied about her granddaughter’s paternity and about the hijacking, she now understood how much pressure her daughter had been under at the time. “We had expected the person who kidnapped the child to be arrested, not her. She is remorseful and embarrassed by her actions, and also sorry for bringing her family’s name into disrepute,” she said. The grandmother was worried about her grandchildren’s financial constraints should their mother be sent to jail. She also rejected prosecutor Kuveshni Pillay’s suggestion of foster care grants for each child, saying it would not be enough to pay for all the expenses involved in raising them, the family and the education of the mother’s younger siblings at university. The State is expected to call its own witnesses on Wednesday. Daily News