Durban - A former minibus taxi owner from Mpumalanga was shot dead in his white bakkie while driving near the Hammarsdale Bridge on the N3 on Monday. Motorists alerted police to a vehicle that was stuck in the centre lane of the busy freeway because it was obstructing peak hour traffic towards Pietermaritzburg. Sources said the bakkie was sprayed with bullets from an automatic rifle. Captain Nqobile Gwala, KwaZulu Natal police spokesperson, said Mthethomusha Justice Ngubane, 38, was found inside the vehicle with gunshot wounds to the upper body. The motive for the killing is unknown at this stage. A case of murder has been opened at Hammersdale police station and no arrest have been made. Mxolisi Kaunda, KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, called for an investigation into the shooting. He said Ngubane previously owned taxis in the Mpumalanga and District Association. Hammarsdale had in the past experienced serious tensions related to public transport operations, but the department, said Kaunda, through its interventions, and working with the taxi industry, had managed to bring stability in the area. "He was driving alone on the N3 when he was shot. He died on the spot. We are again dismayed at the latest killing, especially of an operator from Hammarsdale, an area that prone to taxi violence. In July the local taxi association’s deputy chairperson, Dumisani Magwaza, was killed. In December, the chairperson Mbhekeni Hlophe was also killed. I have urged the police to move with speed to investigate the killing of Ngubane.  Whilst it would be premature to link this incident to the taxi industry conflict, I am particularly disturbed by the continued killings in the province," Kaunda said. The incident follows the recent killing in Tongaat of a founding member of the Dolphin Coast Taxi Association, Muthusamy ‘Dickie Govender, together with his wife, Saroj. Police are appealing to anyone who might have information about the suspects to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111. Daily News 