Durban - The eThekwini Municipality planned to tackle high rate of students who did not have accommodation in the city. Addressing the first executive committee meeting for 2018 Mayor Zandile Gumede said the city would be looking closely into the matter of student accommodation around the city. "We will work together with all the stakeholders to assist with this matter as it is not correct to have students living as street kids in our city," she said. She further raised a concern on the increasing incidents of rock throwing from the bridges around the eThekwini. She said the city has met with the provincial government and other law enforcement agencies to deal with these acts of crime. "We are optimistic that we will find a long term and a short term solution to it. In other cities they have nets and billboards over their bridges in order to prevent such incidents including of those people who want to commit suicide over the bridge. I am confident that in our collective wisdom we will be able to find solution," she said. Gumede thanked the members and their respective committees for ensuring that visitors and holiday makers enjoyed Durban "to the fullest". "We also appreciate the work that was done by MEC of Economic Development Tourism and Environmental Affairs –  Sihle Zikalala for doing a beautiful job. We worked together on number of campaigns and events during the festive season. We really felt honoured and everyone witnessed that we are one government," Gumede said. She said the city will soon be realising tourism statistics once they’re being consolidated. The stats is expected to assist the city in order to improve tourism strategies and increase local and international visitors. Gumede further welcomed the "good news" that KZN recorded a 10 percent decrease on road fatalities. Last year the province recorded 324 facalities compared to 361 from last year’s statistic. "But we must also note that eThekwini was among the areas that recorded fatal crashes. Maybe this is due to being a tourism destination, we must do proper research and run proper campaigns. We have to reduce these numbers significantly," she said. Gumede further praised the education department for the improved matric results for 2017. "As the city that is surrounded by many universities and training colleges we must work with institutions of higher education. We must play a visible role because investing in education is not a waste. We must be solution driven. We must ensure that our libraries are working, increase WI-FI hotspots next to schools and universities, find solutions for student accommodation, ensure that there is better transportation for students," she said.  Daily News