On Friday afternoon, lifelong friends Sara Greenspan and Marliene Rogoss were on their way from Westville and travelling along the N3 towards the Durban Central Business District when the incident occurred. Rogoss was driving. Greenspan said they had passed the Tollgate Bridge over the N3 and were travelling towards a pedestrian bridge when she heard a loud bang. They were on one of their usual trips on a sunny morning. “Marliene and I do this often. We have been friends for 49 years from our single days,” she said. Greenspan said both she and Rogoss have children and grandchildren and the ordeal had been very traumatic. “When I told my children what had happened, I just started to sob. We could have been killed and our children left without mothers. I did not even notice anyone on the bridge,” she said. Greenspan said Rogoss did not stop the car and instead drove to the Durban Central police station. “People driving under bridges need to be wary. They must rather slow down and switch lanes if possible,” she said. This recent incident has been one of several in the past few months causing damage to vehicles, claiming lives and injuring several others. In December, Amina and Abdur Raheem Haffejee were killed on the N2 near Ballito when a rock was thrown at the car they were travelling in. After incidents of rock throwing at the Boys Town bridge that goes over the M4, Lee Loynes, chief executive officer at Girls and Boys Town, has called for the community to work with them to find a solution. The bridge belongs to the Department of Transport and its one end is on Girls and Boys Town property, where the entrance is secured with a fence and gate. The other end of the bridge can be accessed by Seatides and surrounding communities. “Girls and Boys Town has discussed the matter with the police and will continue to engage with stakeholders to find a sustainable solution in keeping road users, vulnerable youth in its care, staff and communities safe. “We would like to work with the community and authorities to find solutions to this local threat to people using that road and living in the area, as well as to our youth, families and staff who cross under the bridge many times a day,” Loynes said. Fawzia Peer, city deputy mayor, said the city was looking at constructing steel cages over bridges, erecting closed-circuit television cameras and improving lights on bridges. “This will be subject to normal council procedures and availability of funding,” she said. Until then Metro Police and other law enforcement agencies, including the SAPS and Road Traffic Inspectorate, have beefed up patrols along key routes and bridges. Daily News