Durban magistrate Anand Maharaj, after handing down his sentence, asked that social workers investigate placing the children, aged 8, 10 and 15 years, and 11 months old, into foster care. The children’s grandmother and the woman’s husband had testified earlier in the week that the woman was the family’s breadwinner and they were unable to take care of the children. The husband was unemployed. The woman, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the children, was arrested in March after a nationwide search for her one-month-old baby. She had claimed the hijackers had sped off in her white Toyota Yaris, with her baby inside, from City View shopping centre. For two days, emergency and police units searched for the infant. Private security companies and ordinary members of the public also joined in the search. Investigating officer Langa Mhlongo on Wednesday testified, in aggravation of sentence, that the woman had told him she had given the baby to the biological father for a traditional ceremony. Infant The man was being tried separately. The infant was taken to a place of safety and re-united with her mother a few months ago. The mother pleaded guilty in November. Although Maharaj said her mitigating factors, which included that she was a mother of four minor children and that she was the sole breadwinner, were strong, he agreed with the State that she had shown little genuine remorse. He said she was also not forthcoming with the police and had had plenty of opportunities to tell the truth and call off the search, but she did not until she was caught out. Maharaj was concerned by the fact that she chose not to testify. “I would have expected you to explain in your own words what happened. The impression I got was that you did not want to subject yourself to cross-examination,” he said. The 35-year-old Grade1 teacher kept her head down and sobbed as Maharaj read out the sentence. It appeared that she did not hear her prison term until her attorney, Mfanafuthi Biyela, informed her afterwards. Her leave to appeal was denied. She would have to serve 18 months in jail before she could be considered for parole. Daily News