This is despite a Labour Court ruling which led to the charges being dropped and Ngcobo being reinstated last year. On Sunday Ngcobo confirmed that he was preparing for a disciplinary hearing on February 6. He said he and his legal team were yet to understand the basis on which the charges were reinstated. Ngcobo was suspended on July 14, after the cancellation of the Social Cohesion Conference on June 19. eThekwini deputy head of communications Mandla Ntsele said the municipality did not discuss employer/employee matters with third parties. Ngcobo, however, confirmed the reinstatement of the charge. “I’ll go there and reserve my rights and observe what exactly is required of me. My view is that there is no substance in the charges because they are the same that were ruled against by the court. “Once we get all details on the matter, we will then look at it in the context of the Labour Court ruling,” Ngcobo told the Daily News. He said it seemed there was pressure from within the municipality to get rid of him. “I’m aware of the rumours that this persecution is politically motivated and that at one point there was a meeting of those who are behind this and some senior union leaders,” he said. Ngcobo’s contract is permanent, meaning he will serve into retirement if he is not pushed out of his position. He approached the courts after being suspended for the cancellation of the Social Cohesion event. In the court papers at the time, Ngcobo stated that the city had failed to comply with its own internal policies and procedures governing disciplinary proceedings. He indicated that city manager Sipho Nzuza made it clear via an SMS which he (Ngcobo) received from Dr Sipho Gumede that the instruction to cancel the event came from the mayor and ANC regional secretary. At the time, the ANC distanced itself from the matter. More than 500 people had been invited and huge costs had been incurred on flights, the venue and accommodation. It had also attracted widespread media coverage, said the court papers. Daily News