A Phoenix family have lost all their possessions after a fire swept through their flat in Bankford Road this morning. Christopher Naidoo,32, the homeowner said he was sitting in the lounge with his three-year-old daughter Azaria when he smelt smoke. He then noticed smoke coming from under one of the bedrooms door and upon opening it saw that the his child's cot was on fire "The flames got bigger and bigger," he said. "We tried to throw some water into the room but the smoke overwhelmed us. We could not breathe. I don't exactly know how the fire started as there were no appliances in the room but we have been complaining about electrical faults to the building inspectors as the lights have been flickering. They had revamped the flats recently," Naidoo said.
   
The family could only look on as firefighters doused the flames to the fire that consumed everything that they owned. Naidoo said he had worked part-time as the cargo tally verification service in the Durban Habour. He was unemployed since December. He planned to live with relatives in the interim until an investigation is done into the cause of the fire. Prem Balram, of private security company Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA), said three homes in total were damaged. "The couple attempted to extinguish the fire however it spread rapidly through the upper floor of the building and damaged two other flats in the process. The building could have experienced structural damage which resulted in a section of the roof collapsing,"Balram. Jesse Yasudas, Umhlanga fire Department Divisional Commander, said Naidoo and his wife were treated for smoke inhalation at the scene. T The cause of the fire was yet to be determined. Yasudas said the fire was contained to one room in the flat but the smoke damaged other units in the same block of flats. Tino Pillay, eThekwini ward councillor, said the fire broke out in a "four family" block of flats. Pillay encouraged people to pay their levies to ensure their properties are insured. "While we sympathise with the family the levy will help them in a situation like this where they don't have to fork out from their pocket when tragedy strikes. Daily News