“Mark is an engineering geologist on the brink of a promising career. He is passionate about the Drakensberg and enjoys hiking there,” said the Grobler family.  Grobler set out on a four-day, three-night hike alone in the Cathedral Peak area on December 26. When he did not return, a search party found his vehicle in the car park, as was recorded on the mountain rescue register.  A search operation was initiated by Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, SAPS search and rescue and the Mountain Club of South Africa (MCSA) using internationally recognised wilderness search techniques. Steve Cooke, MCSA KwaZulu-Natal co-ordinator, said the search team received information from a hiking party that had ascended the escarpment from Mnweni Valley.  “This indicated that Mark (Grobler) had been in Twins Cave and intended to hike the Bell Traverse and return,” Cooke said. “An SAAF Oryx was planned to be in the area to recover the crashed SAPS helicopter.  “This made it possible to deploy a team of three SAPS K9 Search and Rescue teams and four MCSA rescue-team members.”   “The rescue team stayed overnight in Twins Cave, which enabled them to do a thorough search of the area around Twins Cave, the Bell Traverse and the Mlambonja Pass. Unfortunately, no trace of Grobler was found.”   Cooke said the search management had decided to scale back operations. On Sunday, the family released a statement through MCSA. Cooke said the family was devastated.  The Grobler family wrote: “As a family we are heartbroken. We have beautiful memories. We would like to thank all the rescuers involved in the search. They put in an enormous effort.”  Grobler’s cellphone has not been active on any network since December 26. Cooke said Grobler was experienced in mountain hiking, was well equipped, carried a map and had done the route before.  Up to 30 team members from Ezemvelo and MCSA had been deployed on the ground, supported by five dogs from 
SAPS K9 search and rescue to thoroughly search densely bushed areas of the planned route. Daily News