Durban - The Umsizi Umkomaas Vervet Rescue Centre is an NGO that rescues and rehabilitates abandoned and injured vervet monkeys while also trying to deflate the misconceptions and myths that Durban residents have about vervet monkeys. The rescue centre recently shared a video on their Facebook page on the release of Pearce, a vervet monkey that had recovered after being injured. Tracy Rowles, popularly known as “monkey lady” runs the rescue centre. Rowles explained what happened to Pearce before he made a full recovery. “Pearce had his leg degloved probably from razor wire, Kingsway High School phoned me and asked if I could help him. He is named Pearce after the student who alerted the office to the one-year-old’s plight. Pearce was with us for about a month before being reunited with his mother and troop.” The video has been viewed over 600 000 times, has over 16 000 shares, over 2 000 likes and over 700 comments. https://www.facebook.com/VervetRescueCentre/videos/1531978446856203/ Speaking to the Daily News, Rowles said she is currently looking after 16 monkeys. “I started working with vervet monkeys over ten years ago. My dogs got hold of a male monkey and I could not find anyone to help. When I eventually found someone they asked if I would be interested in helping which I did and the rest is history,” said Rowles. Rowles said she rescues monkeys on the South Coast that without intervention would suffer awful deaths. “We either euthanise or treat them through our amazing vets and then release them back to their troops,” explained Rowles. Robyn Mays, volunteer marketer at the rescue centre, described Rowles as “the very definition of selfless”, since she has basically given up everything for the monkeys. “She has literally given the monkeys everything and has housed them all at her own home - to the detriment of this home as you can imagine,” said Mays. She is looking to buy a piece of land to create a proper sanctuary that can house more monkeys as well as international volunteers. "We are helping her with this and have already received amazing responses from the public," she said. Daily News