Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni believes that the no-confidence and impeachment options will not be necessary.  “It will make it easier for the ANC if he voluntarily steps down, and it will not expose cracks in the newly elected leadership. I doubt resistance (to Zuma stepping down) will be as strong as we think,” Fikeni said. And although Zuma still enjoys support in the Top Six and the NEC, Fikeni said his refusal to go could further ­damage the ANC’s brand. “That will put the party in a difficult spot in their efforts to fundraise and campaign for the election, but those are challenges that can still be managed. I don’t see him staying in power until the end of this year,” he said. Fikeni said today’s NEC meeting would also serve as a test to determine if the new “unity” leadership was gelling together, and has consensus on a range of issues, including impeachment of Zuma and whether or not it is transcending the factionalism in the organisation. With increasing pressure on Zuma to resign or for the ANC to recall him, greater ­significance has been placed on the January 8 Statement to be delivered by party president Cyril Ramaphosa in East London on Saturday.  While it is unlikely that today’s NEC meeting will take a decision on the president’s future, or that Ramaphosa will make reference to this on Saturday, there are urgent behind-the-scenes discussions on the fate of the president.  On Monday, the Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) warned that Zuma’s removal as head of state would cost the ANC votes in rural areas and divide the ruling party, and Ramaphosa and his Top Six’s visit to KZN this week was seen as an attempt to charm a region known for its staunch support of Zuma. Constitutional law expert Pierre de Vos said a recall by the NEC would not in itself have any legal standing, as the president of the country was legally elected by the National Assembly. He said if the NEC “recalls” Zuma and he refuses to resign, they would then instruct the ANC caucus in the Assembly to institute and support a motion of no-confidence in Zuma, and he would then, in effect, be fired as president of the country. A third option is impeachment.  A president can be impeached on grounds that he or she violated the constitution or the law, for serious misconduct, or due to inability to perform the functions of office. Last month, a Constitutional Court majority judgment found that Parliament had failed to determine whether Zuma breached the constitution in the way he dealt with former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s Nkandla report, and that the Assembly had to comply with the constitution and fulfil its obligation to determine if the president had breached the constitution. The ConCourt ordered the National Assembly “to outline a procedure to be followed” when dealing with impeachment of a president.  The National Assembly subcommittee on review of rules will deliberate on rules dealing with the removal of the president.  The Assembly needs 267 of 400 members to vote to remove Zuma through impeachment, while 201 can see Zuma removed via a vote of no-confidence. Daily News