“We note that every time during election and conference periods there is always a loss of focus on the part of other social partners in the social compact. The focus always goes to the conferences and elections, with eyes taken off the ball - which is economic growth,” said Tembe. He said a new culture of taking business seriously and normalising South African society, where everyone “puts their hands on the deck, working harder to build this country” was critical. “The work ethic and discipline should be in terms of the National Development Plan 2030. We put together a very clear roadmap, but lack of discipline to implement that which has been agreed upon has always taken us back as a province, and as a country. If we could get these right as a foundation, the rest is easier,” he said. Tembe said 2017 had been a very hard year for both country and province. “If you look at what has been happening on the ground in retails and developments, very little focus was put on issues that take the province forward. Hence, I raised the matters above. For that reason we need to go back to the drawing board to ensure that the foundation that was laid in the previous years is brought back to rebuild and renew our country and province,” said Tembe. “From the NDP, the province produced a provincial strategy and put in place the economic council, but it barely met in 2017. The appointments were set for provincial and regional level for business people and all stakeholders to meet. Those were also cancelled at short notice. “You could see the priorities lay elsewhere. While we, as business, are not saying the priority must not be given to political issues at that time, it is still key for all processes to be run parallel to each other. They must also be run efficiently.” “I am confident that if we could continue to work together as social partners, and take the business of economic growth and development of our society, KZN will still stand a good chance of achieving the 3% to 4% growth by 2021, which is a goal we set ourselves a year or two ago. “While the overall growth of the country could lag behind at 2.5% to 3%, it will be a good achievement for South Africa to achieve an average of 3% by year 2021.” The University of Zululand’s deputy dean: Research and Internalisation, Professor Irrshad Kaseeram, said that the appreciation of the rand since the election of Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as the ANC president last month, coupled with possible interest rate cuts in the next Monetary Policy Committee meeting, were positive steps that could boost business confidence and investment in the country and province. Daily News