The report said the number of billionaires rose at an unprecedented rate of one every two days between March 2016 and March 2017. Winnie Byanyima, executive director of Oxfam International, said: “The billionaire boom is not a sign of a thriving economy but a symptom of a failing economic system. The people who make our clothes, assemble our phones and grow our food are being exploited to ensure a steady supply of cheap goods, and swell the profits of corporations and billionaire investors.” One of those people most affected by the gap between rich and poor is Cato Crest resident Sthembi Sikhakhane, who said the news of the wealthy getting even richer “hurt her”. Sikhakhane has been living in a shack since 2012 and said she often had to scrape by to make a living. “We have no proper sanitation and when there is no food we sometimes have to forage for edible plants. Some of these are near toilets,” she said. She felt poor people were only seen as “voting cattle” by the elites. Upset The grandmother, who lives with four of her grandchildren, was upset that the wealthy were “coining it” while they could barely get employment. What also riled her was that people from shacks were seen as lesser beings and not treated as humans. Dawie Roodt, chief economist at Efficient Group, said the top 1%  getting wealthier did not mean the poor were getting poorer. “The poor has never had it so good in the history of mankind,” he said. Roodt said many of the rich were self-made billionaires and millionaires. They were getting wealthier, he said, because they embraced technology. He encouraged poor people to get qualifications to be able to compete better. Roodt said the rich were also adept at tax evasion and knew how to pay the minimal amount of taxes because they knew how the tax system worked. He also said estate duties were decreasing and poor people generally voted for less taxes. “The rich getting richer was not portrayed correctly as it made it look like the poor were not benefiting. This was a case of populism,” he said. He cited the example of China and how it uplifted more than 300million people out of abject poverty. Roodt said the country had one of the biggest number of billionaires in the world. “Increasing the inequality gap is a sign of a growing economy,” he said. Daily News