Durban - A Glenwood woman has collected thousands of litres of water that will be donated to animal sanctuaries in Cape Town. The city is currently experiencing a water shortage and Mandy Wilson has taken up the plight of the animals. Wilson, who is part of One Small Act of Kindness, said they are working on collecting bottles of water that will be sent to Cape Town each month to assist animal sanctuaries across the city. "My home is just one of four drop off points and the response from residents has been absolutely overwhelming. We had been let down by one of the transport providers and this morning I woke up to find tow trucks, ambulance vehicles and residents who told me they have it under control," Wilson said. Local emergency rescue operator, Rescue Care, was one of the companies that rushed to Wilson's aid. Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care Operations Director, said they have transported hundreds of bottles of water, collected by Glenwood residents, and have delivered them to a trucking company in Pinetown. “We just want to assist where we can. We need to think of the people in Cape Town. It could happen to us as well so we just want to do whatever we can to show our support,” he said. Wilson said they have collected thousands of litres of water in Durban and at another drive in Johannesburg. "We have Gift of the Givers on board as well and they will assist. The support from the community has been unbelievable," she said. A truck is set to leave Durban for Cape Town tomorrow. Wilson said they are looking for a warehouse to store the water and for freight and transport companies to come on board and assist in delivering the water to sanctuaries in Cape Town. Meanwhile, Gift of the Givers has revealed that they are preparing for Day Zero. The organisation's Imtiaz Sooliman, said four million people face the harsh reality of standing in water queues at 200 distribution points throughout the Western Cape. This process could last a week, a month or even a whole year depending on the strength of our prayer,” Fortunately, appropriate measures can manage the crisis significantly if not completely. Gift of the Givers has committed itself to the people of the Western Cape through various planned interventions. Collection of 5L bottled water has already commenced in earnest at more than 70 collection points throughout South Africa. The first delivery of this water on two Gift of the Givers trucks to the SANDF military base at Fort Ikapa, Goodwood, Cape Town, commences this morning. All  water will be stockpiled in SANDF military bases in Western Cape to be distributed at the most appropriate time,” he said. Daily News 