Oluwethu Mthembu was shot in the stomach and thigh and died soon after arriving at the local clinic, his grandmother Kwenza Mthembu said on Sunday. The grandmother said the men took what they wanted but she could not understand why they shot at them. “We were watching television at 9pm when they came into the house. Oluwethu was sitting next to me. We heard these loud bangs inside the house and then outside. Oluwethu began screaming in pain and when we checked him he was bleeding,” Mthembu said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the men took money, cellphones and fired several shots when they were leaving the house. The oThongathi police are investigating a case of house robbery and murder. No arrests have been made. This was one of at least three armed robberies in Durban at the weekend. Two men, one of them a police officer from the eThekwini Inner and Outer West Cluster, are expected to appear in court today for the murder of Eubuka Okolie, 30, in Glenwood on Friday in one incident. It is alleged the two men entered a home on Campbell Road and allegedly robbed the residents of money, handcuffed and shot Okolie. Mbhele said they fled in a getaway vehicle. A case of murder was opened at Umbilo police station. The men were arrested in Spine Road, Westville, and a firearm was recovered. The docket has been transferred to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate for further investigation. Okolie’s relative, Ekene Umunwa, on Sunday said the bullet struck Okolie below the eye and came out at the back of his neck. Umunwa called on the court to do their jobs and give the family justice. In Ottawa, it is alleged that an off-duty policeman shot a resident three times after an argument outside a bar in Kissoon Road on Saturday morning. Prem Balram, a spokesperson for private security company Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), said the policeman claimed the resident attempted to hijack him as he left the bar. He apparently told Rusa that during the chase the resident drew a firearm and fired shots in his direction. “The policeman then returned fire with his state-issued firearm,” Balram said. He said the bullets grazed the resident on his elbow, hip and stomach. Mbhele said Verulam police were investigating a case of attempted murder. No arrest had been made. The victim could not be reached for comment. Today, a 70-year-old man will undergo surgery to remove two bullets from his leg after being shot in his Westville north home on Sunday. His wife, who did not want to be named, said her husband woke up at 2am after after hearing noises in the back yard: “He peered through his window and then shone a torch towards the fence. Two gun shots went off.” She said her husband screamed for help. She contacted the neighbourhood watch and police who searched the area but could not find anyone. Westville police are investigating a case of attempted murder. Daily News