Durban - A terrible storm hit Newcastle, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, which left a trail of destruction on Thursday night. Nomusa Dube-Ncube, MEC for the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), said KZN Disaster teams have been dispatched to areas in Newcastle after a “tornado-like” storm destroyed the township of Osizweni, Dicks Halt, which removed roofs, brought down trees and power lines and left thousands without electricity. According to residents, the storm hit around 11pm on Thursday night, which led to flooded houses which were later inaccessible. Dube-Ncube said only injuries have been reported and no deaths. She also said that local disaster teams worked around the clock to respond to emergencies and more manpower will be available as well as energy with the involvement of the Provincial Disaster Management Center. “We extend our heartfelt sympathy with the affected communities in the Newcastle Municipality. We are doing everything possible through our disaster teams to assist communities in need at this point.  We are taking stock of all the incidents that have occurred last night. I have tasked the Provincial Disaster Center to coordinate with local municipalities and ensure that it is all hands on deck in caring for those in distress at this period,” said Dube-Ncube. She also urged communities in KZN to remain alert as weather abnormalities are becoming regular and more frequent. “It has become difficult to predict weather patterns due to these uncertain trends under the influence of climate change. Our greatest weapon is to be prepared at all times and stay up to date with reports concerning weather situations,” continued Dube-Ncube. On Friday, the South African Weather Services warned of inclement weather in the southern parts of the province such as Amajuba, uThukela, uGu, uMgungundlovu and Harry Gwala Districts. The weather could bring localised flooding. Disaster teams have been dispatched to these areas and once again, communities are urged to stay alert. Communities in the affected areas can contact Dr Thabethe on 034 328 4700. Or email dumisani.thabethe@newcastle.gov.za Daily News