The 16-member Provincial Task Team (PTT), announced by ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule in Durban on Tuesday, after a meeting between suspended PEC members and the national executive committee (NEC) representatives, will take over the operations of the provincial structure. The PTT, whose convener is pro-Senzo Mchunu former economic development MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu, is dominated by the pro-Sihle Zikalala faction, with eleven members, while their opponents have five. All five members of the provincial executive committee, which was suspended following the Pietermaritzburg High Court judgment, are represented in the PTT. These include Zikalala’s deputy, Willies Mchunu, provincial secretary Super Zuma, deputy provincial secretary Mluleki Ndobe and provincial treasurer Nomusa Dube-Ncube. Provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli’s name also appears on the list. Prominent figures on ­Mchunu’s side include former agriculture MEC Cyril Xaba, former education MEC Peggy Nkonyeni and MPL Nhlakanipho Ntombela. Magashule said the composition of the PTT had been welcomed by all 86 members of the NEC, including ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. He said the PTT, together with NEC deployees, should strive to unite the province. “Unity is our focus, and we are worried that there is no way that we can succeed in the 2019 elections if we are still divided and still have groupings and factions,” Magashule  said. He said although the ANC national conference had resolved that ANC members  should drop court cases against each other, the NEC supported  the KZN appeal because the Pietermaritzburg court judgment might affect the ANC across the country in the future. “The only part of the judgment that KZN is appealing relates to the early running of the conference. “We want clarity from the court, which will assist the ANC throughout the country, as the court said we have not followed the (ANC) constitution,” Magashule said. He said besides the court appeal, the NEC had decided to suspend the PEC in order for the province to hold the conference within three months. If the PEC had been dissolved constitutionally, it would have to hold the conference in nine months. Mchunu’s supporters went to court, and this had led to the ­nullification of the PEC. Sihle Zikalala, chairperson of the suspended ANC provincial executive committee, said he was confident that the factions were on the right track to bury their differences for the sake of unity, following Tuesday’s announcement of the provincial task team (PTT). Zikalala, who has been appointed PTT co-ordinator, on Tuesday promised that leaders from both factions were hard at work trying to find solutions to their differences. Zikalala said he was happy with the composition of the PTT, and that it showed the NEC was committed to uniting the movement “and that the structures of the ANC are functioning properly”. “I believe that we have all learnt from the divisions that have characterised the ANC since the provincial conference of 2015. “For us it should not only be the matter of convening the provincial conference, but it should also be about ensuring unity, building structures and ensuring that the provincial conference is a smooth process,” he said. Zikalala spoke to the media immediately after Magashule’s press briefing. The aim of the PTT is to facilitate the rerun of the provincial conference which, according to Magashule, should happen either in March or April this year. Daily News