Proud teachers and the school principal, Muntu Ntombela, welcomed the pupils from as early as 6.30am. Once pupils entered the premises, they were not allowed out because the gate was locked and opened only for visitors. There was no loitering allowed. Dressed in full school uniform, girls and boys kept their hair neat and short with no fancy haircuts allowed. The school assembled at 7.30am when pupils were addressed by some of the teachers and then everyone went into their respective classrooms. Even the newcomers starting Grade 8 already knew where to go and what to do. This was actually the pupils’ second week of school. Stationery and textbooks were distributed last week and pupils were ready to get on with their work. One of the three Grade 12 classes were on cleaning duty for the week because the school does not have any cleaners. Some girls swept the corridors and the foyer, while boys carried extra desks from some classrooms to the Grade 8 block where there was a shortage. While this went on, others immediately began their lessons. Ntombela, who juggles teaching and administration duties, began her isiZulu lesson with one of the Grade 12 classes. Each Grade 12 class has more than 50 pupils. Although it was a big class, the principal said their winning formula was for each teacher to make an extra effort and ensure that each pupil understood the work before moving on to the next lesson. Ntombela took over the reins when the former principal Felix Mshololo died in 2015 of heart complications. He had started the school’s record of a 100% pass rate, and Ntombela followed in his footsteps. Ntombela’s years of experience with working with children and in teaching was evident from the minute she began her lesson. She was worried that her pupils were not drinking enough water in the hot January weather. “I always tell you to bring a bottle of water to class; you will need it in this hot weather. One of the important rules is that if I am too fast for you, stop me and I will go over it again,” she told the pupils. She put her pupils at ease and interacted with them while sharing jokes in-between. “I make them want to be in the classroom environment. Teaching is fun and fulfilling, and our secret as teachers at this school is for it to be enjoyable to them (pupils),” said Ntombela. Menzi High School is a Quintile 4 school, but services pupils from the local informal settlements, which have a high unemployment rate. Poor schools ranked Quintile 1, 2 and 3 are not fee-paying and are allocated a higher state subsidy than those in Quintile4 and 5. “Bread and jam is a luxury for most of our children. We often put money together to buy them bread and jam so they could have something to eat. The school is a fee-paying school and does not benefit from the school nutrition programme,” said Ntombela. At 10.30am, hawkers from the community were allowed on the school premises, but they are restricted to selling healthy food to the pupils such as fruit and sandwiches. “We encourage the hawkers to keep the prices of healthy food low so that each child can afford to have at least one fruit a day. The reality is that we cannot teach children on empty stomachs,” she explained. Each pupil arrived at school on Wednesday with a pack of toilet paper and a ream of paper, which were taken to the school’s storeroom. “Only 60% of our pupils pay school fees. “We ask parents to supply a pack of toilet paper and a ream of paper at the beginning of the term. These are things we cannot survive without,” Ntombela said. One of the school’s top achievers, Grade 12 pupil Sinenhlanhla Gumede, said she was aiming at nothing less than seven distinctions this year and was ready to begin weekend classes expected to start from this Saturday. Meanwhile, Department of Education officials on Wednesday visited several schools to monitor the first day and found that classes got off to a smooth start. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said there were no major glitches. Schools that had suffered storm damage last year also started classes without major problems. One of the schools, Swelihle High School in uMlazi, had three damaged classrooms. The principal, Zandile Sithole, said the department had already sent a service provider to repair all the damages. Daily News