According to the social worker’s report, admitted into evidence earlier, the mother admitted to giving the baby to her co-accused, the biological father, on March 10 to raise her in uMsinga with the man’s family. The mother, a local teacher who is not named to protect the identity of her minor child, pleaded guilty in November to lying about being hijacked and her baby being kidnapped 
outside City View shopping centre. The false report had resulted in police conducting a massive search for the baby. The woman and the biological father were arrested a few days later and faced charges of fraud and defeating the ends of justice. Her co-accused’s matter is continuing separately. Although the mother had admitted in her plea statement, read out to the court, that both she and the baby’s biological father had orchestrated the plan, her husband testified on Monday that this was the first time he had heard about this. He was present when she pleaded guilty and on Monday had pleaded with the court to spare his wife from a jail sentence. Her husband, who has supported his wife throughout the case, testified that his family would be nothing without his wife, their breadwinner. Ownership He told the court his wife had revealed the child’s paternity, had apologised to him for having a child with another man and for lying about the child’s “kidnapping”. Under cross-examination, prosecutor Kuveshni Pillay asked the husband how he felt about his wife giving the child to the biological father with the intention that she be raised by the biological father’s family in uMsinga. “That man had no right to raise that child. She is married to me and therefore the child belongs to me and my clan,” he replied. The couple have three other children and he said that even though he was not the baby’s biological father, it did not make a difference. What mattered, he said, was that the mother of the child was his wife, the youngest of his three wives. The baby, who was in a place of safety, has since been reunited with the woman’s husband and her siblings. The mother quietly wept throughout the court proceedings. Mfanafuthi Biyela, her lawyer, asked the husband how a jail sentence would affect the family. The husband, 58, told the court his last income-generating job was in 2015 when he operated a taxi business, but it stopped when his taxi was repossessed by the bank. He has since been unemployed. Magistrate Anand Maharaj questioned the husband at length about whether this implied he would not be able to take care of the children should his wife be sentenced to jail. “All I am saying is that I have been unlucky (in trying) to get a job,” the husband said. Sentencing arguments continue on Tuesday. Daily News