Neighbours and the family of Ziphi Buthelezi, 49, and her 17-year-old son, Mthunzi Zulu, are still battling to come to terms with their deaths. Their decomposed bodies were found buried in a shallow grave outside Buthelezi’s brother’s house. “Last Tuesday, neighbours heard Ziphi screaming for help, but did not want to go because they were scared,” a neighbour said on Tuesday. “It was only after a few days that they suspected something was wrong when they did not see Ziphi and her son,” said the neighbour, who did not want to be named. Three days later, Buthelezi’s sister, Delisile Buthelezi, was told her sister had not been seen in a while. Delisile questioned her brother about Buthelezi and Mthunzi’s whereabouts. He apparently said they had gone to Pietermaritzburg. Delisile said: “I confronted him and he got angry and insisted they were in Pietermaritzburg.” Unconvinced, Delisile reported the matter. When she returned with the police to open her sister’s house, the brother apparently fled. When police and the community finally entered the house, they found Buthelezi’s belongings, indicating she had not left as her brother alleged. Police, with the community in tow, went to her brother’s house close by. “They broke into his place, searched and found nothing,” she said. “Then one of the community members noticed a small patch near my brother’s house that had been covered up with a tile,” Delisile said. Police and members of the community then started digging. “It was only when they started pulling out clothing, and the strong smell of a decomposing body emanated, that it dawned me on me that Ziphi could be really dead.” Delisile’s daughter Zinzile said they identified her aunt by mastectomy scars, because she had had breast cancer. Buthelezi had been dismembered, while Mthunzi had injuries, Delisile said. Delisile did not know of any conflict between the siblings. She hoped that her brother would be caught because they were living in constant fear, she said. Zinzile said Buthelezi was humble, kind-hearted and loving. The family said they could not afford to pay for the pair’s funerals. Thabani Mthembu, who lives in the community, said the area was tense. “We are traumatised. Our children can’t sleep at night,” Mthembu said. The Daily News learnt Buthelezi’s brother’s house was subsequently burnt by enraged community members. On Tuesday, Weziwe Thusi,  the acting MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, visited the grieving family and urged the community to call the police when they heard screams. She said they would discuss funeral arrangements once the post-mortems were completed. In the interim, the department provided the family with groceries. Daily News