Durban - Over 800 000 thousand tourists made their way to eThekwini during the festive season. This is according to the mayor of the eThekwini Municipality, Zandile Gumede. Gumede said that 94 percent of the visitors were from Gauteng, while 12 percent were foreign tourists. Gumede said 884 236 tourists visited eThekwini, while Durban’s beaches had 3.9 million visitors, which reached a direct spend of R2.3 billion and the contribution to the city’s Gross Domestic Product was R3.8 billion. Gumede was speaking at an Executive Committee meeting on Tuesday. Gumede said 8 073 temporary employment opportunities were created. She said the success was due to a joint effort by the city, other spheres of government and the private sector working together to ensure that Durban was marketed to domestic and foreign markets. Here are the statistics of eThekwini over the festive season. Graphic: Thobeka Ngema “We are hoping to double the number of visitors to our city moving forward. We have to repackage Durban to both our domestic and international visitors. Durban is more than just the beach and warm weather. We are saying to the world, come and enjoy our food, our world-class facilities and hotels because Durban has so much more to offer,” said Gumede. Gumede said no drownings were reported at guarded beaches, however, 155 rescues were carried out and over 26 000 people received treatment for different medical reasons, including 10 who were taken to hospital for near drowning, sprained ankles and arm dislocation. She said there were 6 000 warnings were issued for drinking in public, fighting and illegal braais, 641 motorists were charged for driving unlicensed vehicles and parking in prohibited areas. Moreover, 58 people were arrested for cellphone and handbag theft and over 1 600 children were separated from their parents and later reunited. The mayor also thanked Durban Tourism and Tourism KZN for their efforts in marketing eThekwini and flying the city’s flag high, and urged them to continue marketing the city. “Thank you to all officials who worked hard throughout the festive season. Thank you to the public for their cooperation. We will continue with education campaigns for people to continue to keep the city clean,” she said. Daily News