Such benefits were part of the reason why the mother of two had remained in the employment of a Hillcrest-based couple for the past 10 years. Satisfied with what she earned, Maphumulo took care of the couple’s three children and the youngest is now in matric. However, all is not so well with scores of other domestic workers in Maphumulo’s region. As an organiser in the Durban region of the South African Democratic Services and Allied Workers’ Union (SADSAWU), Maphumulo received a large number of complaints from fellow domestic workers. The most recent complaints have been about the annual increases. In December, the Department of Labour announced a 5% annual wage increase on the 2017 wage rates effective from January 1 until November 30 this year. Although employers still have 10 months to implement the wage increase, most domestic workers, according to Maphumulo, were worried that their employers had not even discussed the issue with them. “They were worried that if their employers have not discussed the issue of the annual increase by now, the chances of implementing it are bleak,” she said. Maphumulo said the reality was that reports of domestic workers being exploited were still rife. “We recently won a case at the CCMA against an employer from Malvern who was paying his domestic worker R1 500 a month and when she asked for an increase, he fired her. In court he claimed the reason he had fired her was that she had stolen from him,” said Maphumulo. The National Minimum Wage of R3 500 for domestic workers expected to be implemented from May 1 and over the next three years, is one of  the Department of Labour’s interventions to regulate domestic workers’ wages, but the union worried that it forced employers to cut working hours. According to the legislation, domestic workers should work no more than 45 hours a week, no more than nine hours a day if they work a five-day week, or more than eight hours a day if they work for more than five days a week. Overtime is limited to 15 hours a week and no more than three hours on any one day, and it is double pay on Sundays or public holidays. “Some domestic workers said they could not even begin speaking to their employers about the salary increases as their working hours have already been slashed. Soon after the announcement of the National Minimum Wage law, we received complaints of employers cutting down working hours,” said Maphumulo. Thembeka Jiyane, a KwaMashu-based domestic worker and nanny, said her employer had already told her she could not immediately afford to increase her salary, but should her financial situation change, Jiyane would get an increase. Nonjabulo Majozi, a domestic worker in Phoenix, said both her employers who she used to work for for two days a week had cut her down to one day a week each. Maphumulo said: “I always encourage fellow domestics to engage their employers on such issues, but often workers opt to leave their jobs if they are unhappy. There are good employers who adhere to the laws, but others disregard them.” She said the union was waiting for month-end to get an idea of whether employers were implementing the increases. Gloria Kente, another member of SADSAWU, said domestic workers were not happy with the 5% increase. “Domestic workers are regular people. They have to put food on the table every day and they, too, have children at school. The National Minimum wage of R3 500 is not a living wage, but it was better than nothing. The challenge was how to make sure that it gets implemented by employers,” she said. Daily News