Leon has thrown his weight behind Ramaphosa, telling DA members to support the new leader of the ANC in his 
campaign to clean up corruption. Leon was invited to campaign for DA MP Dean Macpherson, who is contesting KwaZulu-Natal MP Francoise Rodgers for the provincial chairperson’s position. The party will hold its provincial conference next week. Zwakele Mncwango will look to retain his position. Leon said he would rather not get involved in the party contestation, and opted to talk about the state of the nation and Ramaphosa’s leadership. “Cyril Ramaphosa’s election has been a game-changer for everyone, for the country, for our economic fortunes, and indeed the DA will have to up its game because Ramaphosa is a very different proposition,” he said. Leon said President Jacob Zuma should vacate the state office because two centres of power were not healthy for the country. “Ramaphosa is absolutely a challenge to the DA. The DA should actually be very open and generous towards Ramaphosa,” he said. He said the DA should be delighted with Ramaphosa’s  fight against state capture, 
and the reconstitution of the Eskom board. “They (DA) should say to him: ‘We are going to support you. Whenever you do things like that, we will be a thousand percent behind you, but if you deviate from the path you offered we will be your biggest enemy.’ “But we have to start off by recognising that there is a big change in the political weather, and when that hurricane comes your way, you must change tactics (as opposed to) when there was drought. “Ramaphosa has renewed people’s hope, although it is very early days,” he said. Leon said under Zuma the country was going off the cliff, and he suspected that if former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma had been elected to lead the ANC, the situation would have continued. “We as South Africans, as DA members and other opposition, need to be supportive of the fact that we got a much better person because we want a South Africa that works for everyone. “I have the highest regard for Jabu Mabuza, who has been appointed as the chairman of Eskom, as he is a stringent critic of state capture,” he said. He said South Africa should celebrate the appointment of Mabuza as this meant a deviation from the road that had taken Eskom to cronyism and corruption. Instead of focusing on 
attacking the ANC for corrupt leadership “which might no longer be there in the future”, the DA should focus on cleaning up its administration in Cape Town and campaigning against ethnic hatred at Hoërskool Overvaal in Gauteng, which is stopping non-Afrikaans-speaking pupils from enrolling. “I just can’t believe that in this day and age we still are arguing about language. What are we teaching those people in the world where 50% of the jobs in the USA are going to be taken over by robots?” he asked. Daily News