The North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria found former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s report on state capture to be binding and ordered the president pay the legal costs of opposing the proposed remedial action. Madonsela welcomed the president’s decision but said it was “two years too late”. “The time he took to act is shocking, to say the least, but, regardless, he has done the right thing and opened the window for the truth to be verified through the official channels,” Madonsela told the Daily News on Tuesday.  She also expressed her satisfaction at the appointment of Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to head the commission, saying she was confident of his immense experience.  “I am quite pleased that Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng appointed the second-most senior judge in the country for this task. This reflects how important the truth is to the chief justice,” Madonsela added.  Lawson Naidoo, executive secretary of the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) said Zuma’s move signalled a shift in the balance of forces in the ANC.  “It would appear that the president is in a corner because there was a decision from the national conference that there should be an inquiry as a matter of urgency. Although he indicated his intention to appeal, this announcement coming on the eve of the national executive committee meeting is clearly designed to try to reduce the pressure on him to resign immediately,” he said.  Naidoo believes that the announcement was an attempt by Zuma to prolong his stay in office. “By implementing the decision of the ANC conference, he is indicating to the NEC that there is no need to remove him with regard to the issue of two centres of power,” he said.  Opposition Opposition parties welcomed the announcement but DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Zuma deserved no credit for the decision.  “His hand was forced. He knew he had no further avenue for delay. As the initial complainant in the State of Capture Report, we will closely monitor the commission over the next 180 days,” he said.  The UDM’s leader, Bantu Holomisa, believes the country should thank opposition parties for the latest announcement on state capture. Holomisa wrote on social media that “once more” the country should thank opposition parties because if they had not succeeded in the Constitutional Court, “the state capture report would not have seen the light of day”. “Amagwala (cowards) are still dragging their feet. We are watching,” he said in a Facebook post.  Zuma said that there should be no area of corruption and that he was “mindful of the concerns raised” by Madonsela in her report, including her lamenting the lack of resources to conduct a wider inquiry into the matter. He said he would make more resources available and it was his “sincere hope” that the commission would be able to reach the areas of concern raised by Madonsela’s investigation and form part of what she might have investigated if she’d had sufficient resources to do so. “I have considered this matter very carefully, including the unprecedented legal implications of the order directing the chief justice to select a single judge to head the commission of inquiry. I have expressed my reservations about the legality of this directive, which may be the subject of the appeal. “I would like to emphasise that I have faith in all the judges and their ability to execute their tasks with the requisite levels of fairness, impartiality and independence,” he said. “I urge everyone to co-operate with the commission of inquiry. I trust that we will all respect the process and place no impediments to prevent the commission from doing its work.” Daily News