Ramaphosa and other party officials met the Zulu king at his palace in Nongoma on Sunday as part of a series of events in the run-up to the party’s birthday celebrations on Saturday. “We want to thank you that you are igniting this process of unity by bringing these leaders together. It is pleasing for us to see most of our leaders here in KZN brought together under your auspices, where we are able to begin this process of unity that we so dearly need,” Ramaphosa said. Super Zuma, ANC provincial secretary, and his deputy, Willies Mchunu, were also present. The provincial executive committee (PEC) led by Zikalala has been locked in a bitter court battle with Mchunu’s supporters. Mchunu lost the chairmanship to Zikalala in 2015. A high court ruled that the PEC was null and avoid. Ramaphosa was briefing the king about the ANC’s December conference and introduced him to newly elected ANC 
officials, including the party’s new deputy, David Mabuza, secretary-general Ace Magashule, national chairperson Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Paul Mashatile. ANC national executive committee (NEC) members including Malusi Gigaba, Bathabile Dlamini, Bheki Cele and Mchunu, also attended the meeting.  Ramaphosa said that following the highly contested ANC conference, members made a clear statement that they wanted a united leadership.  Ramaphosa assured the king that party leaders were going to work hard to ensure they renewed and repositioned the ANC so it could deal with challenges such as reducing unemployment, alleviating poverty and reducing inequality. “Delegates at the conference chose leadership that combines various approaches, views and grouping within our movement. The leadership before you is a unity leadership meant to unite our organisation and make it strong,” Ramaphosa said. The king echoed Ramaphosa, saying it was important for the ANC to remain united as the leaders of South Africa.  He also denounced tribalism. Ramaphosa presented the king with three African long-horned Ankole-Watusi cattle. There were reports that the recall of President Jacob Zuma might be discussed with the king leading up to the party’s first NEC meeting on Wednesday.  Magashule would not be drawn on the matter; instead he said the agenda of the meeting was an internal ANC issue. “The purpose of this visit is to inform the king that we are renewing and reviving the ANC,” Magashule said Ramaphosa would also lead the party officials in visits to the graves of former ANC presidents Josiah Gumede, John Langalibalele Dube and Inkosi Albert Luthuli.  Daily News