The acting head of the AFU, advocate Knorx Molelle, said this was only the first of an onslaught of court orders to come as investigations mount against others implicated in the former public protector’s report. Molelle said the AFU was looking into 17 matters, from their side, but six have taken priority now and the matters were before the court awaiting preservation orders. “Hopefully, we will receive the granted court orders over the next couple of weeks. “This is only the first,” Molelle announced on eNCA on Tuesday. Molelle confidently said that he foresaw a substantial amount of money being recovered by the end of the next financial year. The highly specialised team has already been granted a court order to freeze R1.6 billion of assets from Gupta-linked companies McKinsey and Trillian. Speaking outside the Pretoria High Court on Tuesday, the acting head of the NPA’s Specialised Commercial Crime Unit (SCCU), Malini Govender, said they had been working with the evidence since late last year with a team consisting of more than 20 people from the NPA, SCCU, National Treasury, AFU and others. She said there were eight legs to the NPA’s investigation - seven from the State of Capture report and one related to Estina, another Gupta-linked company in the Free State. Aware McKinsey’s global spokesperson, UK-based Steve John, told Independent Media that they were only made aware of the court order via the media on Monday. But, John said, McKinsey would welcome all efforts to help them repay the fee as they had been “trying to return it since October because Eskom did not follow the appropriate procurement processes”. The R1.6bn amount is the same amount of money Eskom demanded that the companies pay back last year. Eskom issued a letter of demand to the two firms last October for the repayment of the funds for an unlawful consultancy contract. Eskom stated that McKinsey received two unlawful payments totalling R1.028bn, and Trillian, “with the consent of both McKinsey and Trillian”, received four payments totalling R564.6 million. These were raised as suspicious, based on information in the State of Capture report and subsequent Guptaleaks e-mails which pointed to alleged relationships between senior Eskom officials and the Gupta family. John said they will co-operate with the authorities in the investigations. He also denied that McKinsey ever served the Gupta family, or any companies publicly linked to the Gupta family. He also denied that McKinsey provided authorisation for Eskom to pay Trillian. Molelle said Trillian also showed willingness to co-operate and pay back the money. Both Molelle and Govender refuted rumours of imminent arrests of those linked to state capture, or that an arrest warrant was granted for one of the Gupta brothers. Daily News