Some pensioners have not received their payments while others received partial payments. Eric Butler, 83, has received less than the R1600 pension due to him for the past six months and said he had received a little over R1000 the last time. Butler, who lives alone in South Beach, has been in and out of SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) offices in Durban. “I went to the Sassa offices. When I shared my issue with one of the supervisors, she joked and said she took my pension payment,” Butler said. The pensioner, whose wife died a year ago, said he would struggle if his daughter was not there to help him. Basil Usher, 60, lives in a Tafta flat (The Association for the Aged) on South Beach and has spent the past few weeks at the Sassa offices. Usher was going to be a first-time recipient of a pension payout this month but his hopes were dashed when he did not receive his payment. To make ends meet until he eventually gets his pension, he has to ask friends and family for help. Vusi Mahaye, senior manager for communications and marketing at Sassa KZN, said there were various reasons why pensioners may not have received their payments. “The grant may be suspended for a particular reason specific to that individual. A temporary disability grants may have lapsed as the period awarded has expired. A temporary withhold may have been instituted for a particular reason.” Mahaye said another possible reason for pensioners not receiving their full payouts could be due to various deductions like a funeral policy. He also said some pensioners may have received individual letters, explaining the reasons for the differing payments and which could contain a request for further information from the beneficiary. “It is advisable that the beneficiaries report to their nearest local office if they have changed their address to ensure that the mails are sent to the right address,” said Mahaye. On learning that some pensioners had been treated rudely by Sassa staff, Mahaye had advised pensioners to report the staff to a supervisor or request to see the office manager or call the toll free number 080 060 1011 or report it to any higher office responsible for the local office, which includes district, regional and national offices. However, the complainant must be able to identify and have the name of the official. Cash Paymaster Services (CPS), a business unit under Net1, distributes social grants in South Africa. Bridget von Holdt, Net1 spokesperson, said CPS does not stop payments or refuse to make payments to pensioners. Instead, it acts on the monthly instruction of Sassa. “Like any bank card, ownership confidentiality applies. If you personally have a query on your credit card or bank card, you need to contact your bank, go through various security checks and then the information will be sorted. “The same applies to the Sassa beneficiary. The call centre is equipped to handle all queries and to do so most efficiently. It is a toll-free call facility so it costs the beneficiary nothing. Sassa, too, has a call centre. “The Sassa pay sites open from the first day of the month for 10 days. The beneficiary can visit any one of the 10 000 sites, go to a Net1 office or any designated retailer to claim their money - including commercial banks. “They need to possess a valid Sassa card and a PIN number and they are able to claim their money,” she said. Daily News