Durban - The Durban mother who faked her hijacking and the kidnapping of her a month old baby was sentenced to five years in prison at the Durban Magistrate's Court. Magistrates Anand Maharaj began her sentencing with quoting Facebook comments from people from as far as Asia, New Zealand who commented with disbelief of what kind of a mother would give away her own baby. Defense attorney Mfanafuthi Biyela had pleaded with the court to have mercy on her saying her actions were out of fear of her husband who was already suspicious that the baby was not his. The state prosecutor had proposed a jail sentence that will send out a strong message to other would be copy cats. A police officer who cracked the fake case that misled authorities said that the woman's emotional state was nothing out of the ordinary for someone who had lost a baby. Colonel Langa Mhlongo, an investigating officer with 27 years of experience in the police and who was brought in to be part of the investigations said they had information from an informer that the woman had an extra cell phone which she used to communicate with a boyfriend. On Friday March 10, The woman who cannot be named to protect the identity of the baby opened at Durban Central Police Station case of claimed that her baby was kidnapped during a hijacking incident at City View in Durban. The case attracted a lot of public and media attention. For two days the mother and her husband pleaded for the safe return of their baby on radio and various newspapers. Mhlongo said they took her in again for questioning on Saturday. " Another suspicion was why would a mother run to the shopping mall and not tell anyone around her at the car park. When interrogated about the second cell phone, she told the truth about how she had given the baby to its biological father for a traditional ceremony," said Mhlongo. Mhlongo could not say exactly how much was used in resources in the search of the baby that involved various units such as the Crime Intelligence, Search and Rescue, Dog Unit, National Intervention Unit. Daily News