Durban University of Technology spokesperson Noxolo Memela said an urgent meeting was called between the chairpersons of the three labour unions, the National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu), the Tertiary Education National Union of SA (Tenusa) and the National Tertiary Employees’ Union (NTEU), to discuss the impasse over staff salaries for 2018. On Wednesday morning Unisa staff blocked off Stalwart Simelane (Stanger Street) Road outside the Unisa building. At the same time DUT staff marched from the ML Sultan Campus to the Steve Biko campus management offices to hand over another memorandum. Khaya Xaba, of Nehawu, said staff were being taken for granted by the university management and they were willing to go on a full-blown strike indefinitely. “Workers will not return to work until university management sorts out the salary dispute and the absorption on a full-time basis of all workers on contract since 2014,” he said. Their demands were: *  An across-the-board salary increase of 12%. Management is offering 6.5%. *  All university council members stop doing business with the university with immediate effect as they care less about the issues of workers and more about milking the university. Xaba believes Unisa can afford the 12% salary increase that workers are demanding. “The university registers more than 400 000 students annually and has more than R400 billion in reserves. They are being disingenuous when they plead poverty,” Xaba said. Martin Ramotshela, a Unisa spokesperson, could not be reached for comment. Striking DUT staff shut down campuses and brought a stop to the student application process. The memorandum handed to vice-chancellor Professor Thandwa Mthembu detailed nine disputes employees have:  salaries; labour disputes; staff morale at an all-time low; heavy-handedness and bullying; staff not being treated with dignity and respect; departments are being restricted causing tension and uncertainty in the workplace; Mthembu’s closed-door policy; devious approach to staff benefits and conditions of service; and inherited outstanding issues which they claimed “he turned a blind eye to”. Memela said that after several meetings, the parties met at the CCMA in December where the CCMA issued a strike certificate. “DUT management remains committed to resolving the impasse and ensuring that the university and its functions return to normality as soon as possible. Management is committed to continued engagement with the unions in efforts to resolve the staff strike,” Memela said. Although registration has been slightly affected, DUT students are registering online. DUT campuses will be closed for a fourth day after wage negotiations reached a deadlock. Union leaders called for a mass meeting at the ML Sultan Campus this morning. Tenusa spokesperson Naresh Sentoo said the unions could not reach agreement with management at on Wednesday’s meeting. Unisa staff belonging to trade union Nehawu joined the strike on Wednesday. Daily News