Durban - The National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) has laid charges against a KwaZulu-Natal North Coast deputy mayor and his bodyguard following a shooting of a dog in Eshowe in December last year. In a video clip that went viral, the bodyguard is seen shooting the dog which is chained to a fence. Deputy Mayor Philani Ntombela and a man believed to be the dog’s owner are seen cheering on the shooter. Despite the dog being shot a number of times, it was found alive a few days later.  Meg Wilson, NSPCA Communications Unit Manager, when they investigated the matter, the findings were more horrific than originally reported. “Video footage of the incident surfaced on social media, bringing it to the attention of the NSPCA and Eshowe SPCA five days after the dog was shot. The Eshowe SPCA inspector attended to the complaint as soon as he was made aware of the situation and found a dog still alive with multiple gunshot wounds. Five days had lapsed and not a single person sought help for this animal, allowing it to suffer for a prolonged period of time,” she said.  Wilson said closer analysis of the video that originally depicted a dog that is tied to a pole being repeatedly shot – it came to light that four dogs were in fact shot.  “One dog was shot multiple times, another dog escaped wounded and two puppies were shot. One of the puppies was in the hands of a nine-year-old boy and the shooter took the shot whilst still in the hands of the young boy,” Wilson claimed.  A witness stated that there was no proof that these were the dogs that attacked livestock as livestock roam and that it was assumed that it was these dogs, two of which were puppies. “We are absolutely overcome with devastation for these animals who have been failed by humans. The sheer disregard to their sentience is disturbing and to walk away showing absolutely no shame is unforgivable, in the midst of children, while one of the animals is in the hands of a child – it is inconceivable to think that this was the act of leadership” Wilson said.  Due to the nature of the case, Wilson said the NSPCA official had to be escorted by an armed guard to lay the charge at the local police station.    Daily News