Ithala’s marketing and ­general manager, Sandile Xolo, said the selection process for applications received thus far had started.  “We would be delighted to afford more students an opportunity to shine in their careers. The growing number of applications has been encouraging ,and students are still welcome to apply for funding until (Friday) January 12,” said Xolo. Ithala said that the fund had two application periods to manage the influx of applications. “The first period deals with students who received acceptance from an institution of higher learning early. “The second period is usually the busiest, as most students wait until they have received their final results before applying,” said Xolo. “We received 27 applications during the first period, and are expecting more during the second application period.” The fund was created in 2016 in response to students who could not afford registration, and the first set of six students were funded for the 2017 academic year. It is intended to assist academically deserving first-year students from historically disadvantaged backgrounds. Xolo said the fund’s growth was dependent primarily on the student account holder’s usage of their student account cards. “The growth is not enough to fund a lot of students; this is the reason we are encouraging more students to take up this account, so that they are part of the solution in addressing student funding. “Currently we will be able to fund approximately 20 students,” he said. Ithala said at the moment they had 2500 student account holders who actively used their student account cards, from which 20% of revenue earned from card usage went towards the fund.  Once students were registered in a higher learning institution, they were encouraged to take up other forms of funding at their disposal. “Registration fees vary from institution to institution. We fund the most deserving students, in line with the criteria and available funds,” said Xolo. “By being a Student Account holder with Ithala, 20 cents is donated towards the Ithala Education Fund for every rand from the revenue generated on account transactions,” he said. “We ask for every individual who is in a position to help, to take responsibility for the education of our future professionals by donating to the Ithala Education Fund.” Daily News