Phoenix victim Lionel Govender, 37, was shot by hijackers and later died in hospital on Monday. That night, Mohammed Iqbal, 49, and Govender, who live in the same area, were hijacked 20 minutes apart. The hijackers used Iqbal’s red Toyota Tazz to rob Govender of his VW Polo. Iqbal had driven into his driveway, turned off the car’s ignition and put on the gear lock when he was surrounded by five men. They told him not to make a noise or they would kill him. “One of the hijackers tried to reverse the car, but was unable to get it into gear. The car jerked forward and the front bumper and headlight struck a wall. A hijacker pointed a gun at me and told me to drive the car on to the road,” he said. They kept threatening to shoot him. Iqbal was then forced out of the car again and made to lie face down on the ground while the men fled in his car. It was later found nearby. “I thought I was living in a safe suburb for the past 40 years. Suddenly, you have an incident like this. People must be aware of what is going on and prevent this from happening,” Iqbal said on Tuesday at a police station while sorting out paperwork. Govender, a carpenter of Berrystone Road, had dropped off a co-worker at his home in Old Cottage Place. The homeowner, Vee Narainsamy, said his son-in-law, who did not want to be named, got a lift home daily with Govender. Another friend was also in the car at the time. Narainsamy said the men noticed they were being followed by a red Tazz. Govender, who would usually make a U-turn at the end of the road, instead drove into the driveway. The occupants of the Tazz got out and chased after Govender on foot, into the backyard. Narainsamy said: “We heard noises and footsteps outside, but because we are security-conscious we could not open the doors immediately. “We then heard a loud bang that sounded like a gunshot, followed by the Polo reversing out. We are still traumatised.” Captain Nqobile Gwala, a police spokesperson, said four men had jumped out of the Tazz and went after Govender, who threw the car keys into the bush. The suspects shot him and fled in the Polo which was later found in KwaMashu. The bullet struck Govender in the stomach and he died soon after arriving at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Phoenix. Jay Pillay, a relative and owner of J&L Interiors, said Govender worked for him for 15 years. “There are too many questions left unanswered. A Polo is a sought-after car. Why would they leave the car in KwaMashu? Was it a hit or was he just another victim of a crime? “He was such a humble person and dedicated to his job,” Pillay said. Johann von Bargen, who conducts anti-hijacking seminars in Durban, said throwing the key into the bushes could possibly be why the hijackers shot Govender. “There is a high percentage that you can survive a hijacking if you follow the basic rules and remain calm. Never fight with them if they are that close to you. A hijacker would not hesitate to harm or even kill you,” he said. Charges of murder and carjacking are being investigated by the Phoenix police station. No arrests have been made as yet. Govender’s funeral was expected to take place at the Verulam Crematorium on Wednesday. Daily News