Yola and Yolisa Nzimela of Glenwood, Melissa and Katherine Neal of Northdene, and Driaska and Maranka Naidoo of Morningside were all in the Durban Girls’ High School class of 2017. All did well, gaining a string of distinctions, and plan to further their studies. But now, with their school days over, they will be forging futures on their own. Yolisa (seven distinctions) who also got advanced maths in the IEB exams, and who was one of KwaZulu-Natal’s high achievers, was second in the grade for two years and second to the school dux. She put her success down to being dedicated and consistent. “I worked very hard and in matric I studied all the ­papers from 2010 onwards, which helped me. “And I enjoy learning. I love maths; I pass my time doing maths,” she said. She plans to do a business science degree at UCT, majoring in finance, as she aims to become a chartered accountant. “It would be great if I could get a bursary though,” she added on Thursday. Her sister (three distinctions) is planning to study environmental science at Rhodes University, and also needs a bursary to help her realise her academic dream.  The Neal twins will split up during their gap year, with Katherine going to Johannesburg to become an au pair for a young relative, and Melissa doing the same job for another relative in Cape Town. Melissa aims to study graphic design at the Durban University of Technology next year and has already set up 
her own art blog business, which will help her with painting commissions. Katherine will be pursuing online studies in archaeology and will possibly go overseas afterwards. “I am very interested in discovery and history and preserving historical treasures,” she said. Driaska Naidoo (six distinctions) will study business science at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, while sister Maranka (five distinctions) will study civil engineering, also  at UKZN. Meanwhile, there are 17 distinctions in one Westville household on Friday as the Padia family celebrate the success of their triplets. Tahil Padia and his brother Yastaav attended Westville Boys’ High School, while their 
sister Uvedhna went to Westville Girls’. Tahil - who designed a new student centre at the school, with some modifications by an architect - will study mechanical engineering at UKZN, and his brother will study computer engineering at UKZN. Uvedhna will study biological science and specialise in genetics, possibly at UKZN as well. “I am very proud of them. They have worked hard and we were hopeful they would do well,” their mother Yashica said on Thursday. Daily News