This followed a strike by the city’s Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) staff at the weekend.  Mandla Ntsele, eThekwini Municipality’s Deputy Head of Communications, said the workers were demanding full-time employment.  During the strike, rubbish bins were deliberately overturned, allegedly by people working at Durban Solid Waste (DSW) under the EPWP programme. Speaking to the Daily News on Sunday, the workers claimed to have been working under the programme since 2013 and said they were promised permanent employment in 2015, which has not materialised. “Instead, we see people who were not under this programme being brought in at a higher salary than we earn.  “The mayor (Zandile Gumede) is responsible for this mess. Since she took over the reins, she has been sidelining people who were employed during former mayor (James) Nxumalo’s time. We will not stop blocking the (Berea) depot until we get the desired outcome,” said a group spokesperson on Sunday. Another disgruntled employee said they were shot at by metro police with rubber bullets, allegedly on Gumede’s instructions, on Friday evening. “We were just sitting on the roadside next to the depot, singing. She (Gumede) arrived with metro police and instructed them to shoot at us. All we want is the promise of permanent employment to be fulfilled. I have two children to look after and my siblings depend on me, but I can’t help them because we earn between R2 700 and R3 000. These people that arrive after us earn up to R10 000 because they are the mayor’s favourites. We took our grievances to Raymond Rampersad, deputy head of DSW, and he said this was beyond his control,” said another employee. Businesses in town, especially fast-food outlets, expressed disgust at the state of the city’s centre. Habib Singh, manager of a fast- food outlet at the corner of Dennis Hurley and Yusuf Dadoo streets, called for the municipality to be “fair” to the employees, to ensure the strike ended.  He said the state of the city centre was “disgusting” and that this was not good for business. Sandile Mabasa, manager at another outlet at the corner of Dennis Hurley and Bertha Mkhize streets, said since they were paying their dues the eThekwini Municipality should have had a plan to avert the strike.  The city centre was the worst- hit by the strike as the streets are usually cleaned daily, and the overturned rubbish bins worsened the situation. Ntsele said employees who were willing to work were intimidated by the strikers.  “This evening’s shift workers will be escorted by metro police to ensure that incidents of intimidation do not happen. Our plan was to have these people on duty this morning, but they were intimidated, hence the plan to bring in the police.  “Their demand to be employed permanently is not possible because there are no vacancies. We encourage them to apply like everyone else when there are vacancies. Currently, they work under the expanded public works programme,” Ntsele said. Rampersad said it was not simple to employ the striking workers permanently. “We have 15 000 people under the EPWP throughout the city in different departments. If you give permanent employment to one group, then you would have to do the same to the rest and there is no budget for that.  “The people they are referring to, who earn more than them, are contract workers. We have been encouraging these people to also apply for these posts when they are advertised,” Rampersad said. Mthunzi Gumede, the mayor’s spokesperson, said there was no such thing as “mayor’s favourites”. “We can confirm that the mayor’s office and city officials have met the striking workers. We hope that all will return to normal while we work on finding a lasting solution to the matter,” he said. Nsele announced on Sunday afternoon that waste collection and removal would resume in the evening.  “The staff members will work around the clock to ensure that the backlog is completed by tomorrow and the normal waste-collection pattern resumes.” Daily News