Sixteen-year-old Risa, of Westville, impressed casting agents at an iPop (International Presentation of Performers) competition in the US. The event saw artists from 47 countries battling it out in different categories of performing arts such as singing, dancing, acting and modelling.  Risa has been singing since she was 3 years old and is used to wowing her audience with her angelic voice. She was the only South African representative in the music category this year, and received a standing ovation from the audience, judges and casting agents in search of raw talent in Las Vegas. She returned home on Tuesday with nine agents interested in nurturing her talent.  One particular agency Risa said she was most excited about was the Global Image Talent Agency, known for having worked with stars such as Maria Carey, Stevie Wonder and Jamie Fox. Meeting Maria Whatley, the founder of the agency, was the highlight of Risa’s experience. “She is known to have an eye for talent.  “Her expertise in selecting talent in the world speaks for itself. Meeting her in the flesh was such an honour,” she said. Risa loved being judged as a professional, for who she was, what she did and not by the colour of her skin. She still could not believe she managed to get nine call-backs from big casting agents. “I will for ever be grateful for the opportunity I had.  “I never thought I would even be considered for a role in such a huge project as High School Musical. It was something I watched on TV,” she said. Risa, who  sings with a local band called Bolly Show Band and had performed with Bollywood singers Keshar Tyohar and Gangan Gaonkar, will be starting Grade 12 at Westville Girls’ High School next week.  She will be juggling school and travelling to the US now and then. Her first trip is expected to be in April and her plan is to do as much school work in the first term as possible, to give her time to travel during the Easter holidays. “Matric is probably the hardest year and since I don’t know what to expect, I will have to make sure that I balance things out.  “School is extremely important to me and with the movie project coming up, I am a bit nervous about what this year has in store for me,” she said. Risa’s equally excited parents, who travelled with her to the auditions, said they were planning for her trip back to the US. Her father, Kevin Moodley, said they had raised more than R150 000 from local sponsors for her previous trips. “The makers of the movie are working on which songs would be suitable for her.  “We want her to use the time to concentrate in school before her next trip,” he said. Daily News