“Hugh Masekela told the South African story in an inimitable way. Through his music, the fight for democracy reached audiences all over the world, and to us he was the voice of hope during dark times. Hugh was recognised by the greatest musicians in the world. He played alongside jazz legends, incredible contemporary and chart-topping musicians, and is one of a few to have been at the famous Rumble in the Jungle. I have some very precious personal memories, as he was a close family friend and a major inspiration to me as a young musician. Today, South Africa, Africa and the world remember a man who lived life to the full”. - Yolisa Phahle, chief executive of M-Net “Hugh Masekela was indeed the voice of a generation. He was an icon that worked very hard to put South Africa on the map. He became very well known and his name became almost synonymous with the struggle for South Africans to define themselves. He kept all of us that were in exile connected to what was going on back home. He will be missed for his larger-than-life personality. He was full of humour, life and vitality. Had he not been a musician, I think he would have been absolutely anything he wanted to be, even a stand-up comedian. I worked with him on the musical Milestones, and he really made sure the music was brilliant. He was a godfather to my daughter and was a part of my wedding in 2006, so we will really miss him dearly.” - Mandla Langa, award-winning novelist and poet “I am deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend, Hugh Masekela. Having first met him while he was in exile, we enjoyed a close friendship for over 30 years. “He was one of our most talented creative icons and used this creativity and his global profile to bring attention to the plight of our people in apartheid South Africa. It was a pleasure to work with him on many projects, including the film version of Sarafina!, for which he wrote and composed songs, and his music was featured in many of our films. “While he lectured in the Music Department at the University of KZN in the 1990s, he spent a lot of time with us. His passing leaves a huge void, but his music will live on forever.  His legacy will be an inspiration to future generations of musicians in South Africa and around the world. Hugh was an exceptional human being and a friend. We have lost an icon. We will miss him.” - Anant Singh “One of my greatest life idols... Always quick with the jokes, stories, sharing, smiles, and as real as they get. Thank you for magic you created and the lives you changed through your music. Blessed for every moment that I got to spend with you, and all that I’ve learned from your life. Thank you, Bra Hugh Masekela, I can’t believe you’re gone. May you Rest in Peace.” - Maps Maponyane, presenter and actor “The world has today lost a legend. Hugh Masekela gave us many songs, a reason to dance to jazz, and combined that with a trumpet, not only to connect us to entertainment, but also to give South Africa, a liberating and powerful voice against apartheid. We celebrate him.” - Uhuru Kenyatta, President of Kenya “I met Bra Hugh a few years back when I hosted the Confederation of African Football Awards in Lagos. He was such a warm, witty man, a true son of the soil. I didn’t know what to do with myself that day, to be honest... I wasn’t sure how he’d react if I walked up to him, but to my utmost surprise he noticed me from across the room and walked over with the most heartfelt smile, mentioning my full name with his hands stretched out, ready for a hug, and then he asked if I wanted a picture. They don’t make them like Bra Hugh any more, but legends never die and his legacy and music will forever live on.” - Joselyn Dumas, Ghanaian media personality. “To my friend Hugh Masekela, your music, love and laughter will always be remembered through South Africa’s past and present, dance halls and households for the magic you created, that make us proud to be South Africans.” - Vivian Reddy, businessman Daily News