Briefing the media on the progress made in the fight against rhino poaching, Molewa said 502 alleged rhino poachers and 16 alleged traffickers were arrested. “This represents a decrease from 2016 when 680 poachers and traffickers were arrested. A total of 446 alleged poachers were arrested in the Kruger National Park, with 189 being caught inside the park and 257 others outside it last year. A total of 220 weapons were seized in rhino-related incidents both inside and outside Kruger National Park in 2017. “It is important for us to mention that arrests made for poaching-related offences were from among our own personnel. Regrettably, 21 officials were arrested in this regard.” Molewa said SANParks had started a programme of integrity testing in the institution to support anti-poaching efforts. The minister said the government employees who were arrested were from the police, army and education department, among others. However, it was difficult to immediately give a breakdown of the employees according to the affected departments. Molewa also said the Hawks, working closely with other departments, have investigated a number of new trends linked to rhino poaching. “Smugglers are coming up with new ways to process horn and smuggle it out of the country. This has been seen in Mozambique and the Hawks are communicating with national and transnational law enforcement agencies on the new trends of trafficking horns.” Last year, the Hawks arrested 16 level three and four wildlife traffickers of South-East Asian, South African, Mozambican, Zimbabwean and Kenyan origin and confiscated 168.46kg of rhino horn. “Given the complexities of these syndicates we regard this figure as a significant achievement,” Molewa said. Arrests She said these cases were linked to poaching in KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo. “The arrests were further linked to incidents in Swaziland and Mozambique. Ten of these cases involved end-users from Asia.” Molewa commended the efforts of the Hawks and SARS, supported by the Green Scorpions, in the dismantling of 35 trafficking networks linking the transit countries of Swaziland, Mozambique, Namibia and Kenya to countries in Asia. Molewa also said the Green Scorpions helped SARS and SAPS with cases where rhino horns were detected at OR Tambo International Airport. “During 2017, there were eight cases of rhino horn at OR Tambo International Airport.” She said the Green Scorpions also played an important role in court proceedings where they regularly testify in aggravation of sentence in rhino-related cases involving trafficking through OR Tambo International Airport. “With respect to these cases, we are now seeing lengthy sentences being handed down,” Molewa said. Daily News