Head of Franchising at FNB Business, Morne Cronje, attributed the growth of  international brands in the country to the “huge potential in South Africa compared to other countries”. “A recent example of a global franchise brand coming into South Africa is Popeye’s, an American brand best known for its spicy chicken. They launched here in July 2017. That is on the back of Krispy Kreme and Burger King having recently launched too.  Even with our challenges, we still offer growth opportunities to global entities,” said Cronje. The Franchise Association of SA (Fasa) said despite trying socio-economic conditions, political uncertainty and tough trading conditions, the franchise sector had held its own over the past four years. The industry has grown its contribution to the country’s gross domestic product from more than  9%in 2014 to 13%, with an estimated turnover up from R465 billion in 2014 to R587bn in 2017. Cronje said last year both clothing and fast food retail brands grew, there was growth in quick-service restaurants, with franchises embracing online and digital channels and offering value for money. Key sectors “In my view, franchising remains one of the key sectors that will continue to grow steadily despite the slow growth environment. This is a trend we have been monitoring without fail over the past years.” Cronje said Johannesburg and Cape Town attracted more international brands because of market share, while growth was slow in KwaZulu-Natal - a factor he attributed to demand. Taste Holding’s food division launched two Starbucks coffee shops in Durban’s Gateway Mall and Florida Road last year. Group spokesperson Fareed Mohammed said Durban was a vibrant and cosmopolitan city with a burgeoning coffee culture. “Florida Road is home to a bustling art scene and a thriving nightlife,” said Mohammed. Taste chose to open a coffee shop due to South Africa’s ­coffee culture growing in both size and sophistication. “In the coffee category there is simply no equal to Starbucks. “When you operate a global brand, with its support centre many miles away, both parties need extraordinary levels of trust if the opportunity is to be maximised. With Starbucks, we courted for 26 months from the first real contact to now.” Taste’s food division said since opening Starbucks in the country they had seen a big uptake among the youth market, and that Starbucks’ Rewards had surpassed expectations, having reached thousands of members to date. “Our big milestone would be to open our first store in Cape Town in 2018 and to grow our store footprint,” he said. Daily News