Bheki Mbongwa, 47, was bedridden after two operations in which surgical incisions were allegedly left open. The Daily News reported recently that the family believed these were botched procedures. Dudu Ngema, 46, Mbongwa’s fiancée, said on Sunday that Mbongwa died on Wednesday. “He was getting attention from the nurses after his ordeal was published in your newspaper,” she said. “We are sad because we believe that had he been handled differently, he would have pulled through.” Mbongwa was admitted to the hospital in 2015 with ulcers and was operated on. After he was discharged, he had difficulty with bowel movements and went back to the hospital where he was operated on for a second time in 2016. The first operation was on the abdomen, and the second was on the chest. “Both incisions were left open and when he ate or drank, everything was visible through the two openings,” Ngema said at the time. “After the second operation, he was sent home with his intestines exposed. We were worried about infections because we were not given sufficient wound dressings and cleaning material, or information on how to handle him.” Since then, Mbongwa had been in and out of RK Khan Hospital, having been re-admitted last month. In video footage seen by the Daily News, Mbongwa is seen with a gaping hole in his stomach. Faeces and fluids were visibly flowing. Ngema believes Mbongwa’s intestine was severed and the staff were unable to seal the hole. The death certificate indicates that he died of unnatural causes. “I’m waiting for the rest of his family to meet because I want the Department of Health to take responsibility for his death. I’m looking at suing the department once all the documents are with us. We have not received the post-mortem report. His death is unnatural so the department must tell us what killed him,” she said. Dr Imran Keeka, the DA spokesperson for health, said the family were within their right to take legal advice. He, however, advised the family to consult the hospital first and get details of Mbongwa’s death. “Hospitals have a responsibility to sit down and explain to families if their loved one’s condition would have adverse results,” Keeka said. Attempts to get comment from health department spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda were unsuccessful. Daily News