Durban - Smangaliso Nhlebela, Eathan Bosch, Kerwin Mungroo and Nondumiso Shangase have been selected for the Cricket South Africa Powerade Academy intake. The programme is set to take place from May 21 for the women and the following day for men and runs until July 27. Nondumiso is the only woman player to partake in this year’s intake. She started her cricket career in the Rural Township Development Programme. Roger Telemachus, KwaZulu-Natal Coastal coach, congratulated the selected cricketers and commended Nhlebela the most for being a committed player. “He has had quite a few setbacks at the beginning of his cricket career, but managed to bounce back,” said Telemachus. “He has been in form throughout the season and he takes his game seriously – with utmost dedication.” He also said that programmes like the Powerade National Academy are an important platform as they assist in shaping and grooming young cricketers. “I believe that this is a useful platform as it teaches an aspiring cricketer about life in the game, but also life beyond cricket. It gives guidelines as to how they are supposed to conduct themselves and what they can expect after cricket. “I was also part of the National Academy in its early days and the programme assisted me a lot in my cricket career, so I believe that it is a crucial platform for the upcoming cricket players,” added Telemachus. He was also confident that the selected players will one day go on to represent South Africa. Heinrich Strydom, KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union CEO agreed with Telemachus and congratulated all four cricketers. “These players have shown immense potential throughout their relatively short careers and have also stood out amongst their peers in the current domestic season with some incredible performances,” said Strydom. “This prestigious academy will present these four players with the perfect opportunity to work on their various skill sets under the guidance of some world class coaches. We are proud of them all and will follow their progress with eager anticipation,” he added. Powerade SA National Academy Men’s Squad: Ryan Rickleton (bizhub Highveld Lions), Jiveshan Pillay (Multiply Titans), Matthew Breezke (Warriors), Tony de Zorzi (Multiply Titans), Kagiso Rapulana (bizhub Highveld Lions), Raynard van Tonder (VKB Knights), Thsepang Dithole (bizhub Highveld Lions), Gary Mahlokana (Multiply Titans), Smangaliso Nhlebela (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Junaid Dawood (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Onke Nyaku (Warriors), Eathan Bosch (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Nandre Burger (bizhub Highveld Lions), Kerwin Mungroo (Hollywoodbets Dolphins), Mthiwekhaya Nabe (World Sports Betting Cape Cobras), Sinethemba Queshile (Warriors) Powerade SA National Academy Women’s Squad: Palesa Mapoo (Gauteng), Nadia Mbokotwana (WP), Saarah Smith (WP), Nondumiso Shangase (KZN Coastal), Izel Cilliers (Free State), Anneke Bosch (North West), Robyn Searle (Gauteng), Tumi Sekhukhune (Easterns), Stacey Lackay (Boland), Gandhi Jafta (Border), Lara Goodall (WP), Tatum le Roux (WP), Zintle Mali (Border), Faye Tunnicliffe (Boland). Daily News