Not only was Captain Cheryl Pillay named one of the country’s best female officers, but the Community Policing Forum (CPF) also won the best CPF title at Durban’s Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre on Friday night. Pillay, a police officer for 27 years, placed second, and her achievement is now being celebrated by her colleagues and the Chatsworth community. Being a dedicated police officer comes naturally to her, she said on Monday, although she had to juggle family life and her career. Pillay is no ordinary cop. She wears three hats; as the Chatsworth Police Station communications officer, the Women’s network Champion for the eThekwini Inner South Cluster; and the Durban Inner South Communications Officer. And she also attends crime scenes. She works shifts and sometimes her shift begins at 3am. Having survived two shootings in the line of duty, Pillay says she is grateful for the blessings of life in her dangerous career. “I pray with my husband and son every morning before leaving the house. My work is a calling to serve and protect,” she said. Winning the National Excellence Award as the Community Policing Forum of the Year was confirmation that the drug- and car theft-stricken community of Chatsworth was on its way to becoming a safer community to live in, said the Chatsworth CPF chairperson, Jakes Singh. Singh admitted that drugs, car theft and hijacking were some of the hot crimes in the area, but said their efforts were paying off. He cited their collaboration with the police and the community as the recipe for success. “We monitored and evaluated the work of the police. We conducted joint patrols and advised the police which areas needed visible policing. We established creative ways of working, because we believe that crime cannot be prevented by having more police, but by having more community involvement,” Singh said. Crime prevention operations such as the Friday Lockdown that Chatsworth had conducted jointly with the various police units, Metro Police, the CPF and other law enforcement agencies, had paid off, he said. “Every Friday we have roadblocks, and street patrols at the crime hot spots. The initiative has helped in preventing crimes before they could occur.” Although crime was decreasing with fewer murders recently, crimes such as car theft, hijacking and crimes committed by drug addicts were still a concern, but the community of Chatsworth was ­doing something about it. “Drugs are a national problem and one of the biggest social ills facing our youth. It affects us seriously as the community, but we are doing something about it, and this award is proof that our work is seen out there and someone appreciates what we do,” Singh said. The CPF was working closely with the criminal justice system by having regular meetings with magistrates in an attempt to have a more transformed and transparent system. The main plan was to address social crimes, build a safer community and engage more with the youth. The Police Station of the Year award was won by Port Shepstone. Brigadier Sandra Nala, who has led the police station for two years and has 31 years of experience in the police service, said the station had made a name for itself through its crime prevention tactics. The award recognised the station for its excellent crime prevention in the 2016/17 financial year, and for meeting set targets and arrests. Nala said targets were set internally and the police on the ground were motivated to meet their own targets. “We have an open door policy, and encourage them to speak out about issues that affect their lives and their work so that they are solved. Police on the ground are rewarded for their achievements,” she said. Daily News