Durban - The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) has called on the Medicines Control Council to immediately approve the all-important Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccine, which protects the child from severe types of Tuberculosis (TB). This comes after the Daily News reported that there was a nationwide shortage of the BCG vaccine, which has affected both public and private medical facilities. Ncamisile Nkwanyana, IFP KZN spokesperson on health said they have learned that there is a shortage of the BCG vaccine across the country and that it has already affected newborns in KwaZulu-Natal. “The delay in approving this much needed vaccine is unnecessary and this issue must be resolved without any further delay. It is unacceptable that there are gaps in medicine supply and delivery in KZN state hospitals and clinics. There should be more use of direct supply from companies to health facilities instead of reliance on inefficient regional depots,” said Nkwanyana. Extreme shortages of medicines make it difficult for many people to get important medical care, said Nkwanyana. She also said that authorities have not articulated or implemented effective policies to alleviate it on their own. “The KZN people’s right to healthcare continue to be seriously undermined, with no end in sight,” Nkwanyana said. She said if the shortage of the vaccine has been going on for months and there is no indication as to if or when it might end. “Contingency plans should be put in place by all medical suppliers so that if supply is interrupted, patients are not affected. The KZN Provincial Government should develop and implement effective policies to address the crisis in KZN’s health sector,” continued Nkwanyana. She said that no matter the cause, drug shortages have become a key patient concern in healthcare today. The urgency of the situation suggests that the current “business as usual” approach is inadequate. “Failure to remedy this would be a violation of the Constitutional rights of patients and a further breach of the KZN Department of Health's obligations. The gross disregard for the legal obligations of the KZN Department of Health and the vital oversight function of the National Department of Health is extremely worrying and cannot be allowed to continue unchallenged,” Nkwanyana said. Ncumisa Mafunda, KZN Department of Health spokesperson, had said that the reason for the shortage was because there was a supply constraint linked to production and quality assurance. Moreover, the Medicines Control Council had not approved the release of the batches. Mafunda said the provincial depot had distributed all the stock it had and was awaiting stock from the suppliers. Daily News