This comes after claims were made by the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA) suggesting that this was one of the reasons why white- and Indian-owned funeral parlours and service providers did not want them to have a stake in the industry. Since December, Nafupa SA has issued threats against non-African funeral businesses. They have been warning them not to conduct business in African townships and rural areas. Addressing the media at Coastlands Hotel in the Durban CBD on Monday, Nomkhosi Gumede, RAF regional marketing manager, dispelled the allegations made by Nafupa SA. “As the Road Accident Fund, we reached a point where we agreed that there needed to be a panel of funeral parlour service providers. This was because as a government organisation, we get funding from the Treasury. We formed the panels to reduce the abuse of funds and to regain control over the amount of monies that were being charged by funeral parlours. In some instances, costs were inflated,” she said. Gumede explained that for a funeral parlour or service provider to be added to their panel, they had to submit documentation to the RAF. “Any parlour can be a part of the panel. We have never limited the panel to white- or Indian-owned businesses, nor have we said it is limited to only black businesses. All parlours are allowed to be a part of the panel,” she said. Gumede said service providers who are not a part of the panel had not submitted the required documents. Regarding a bereaved  family’s choice to use prescribed funeral service providers, Gumede said families are allowed to choose from the RAF or make arrangements with a provider of their choice. “Families have every right to choose. They can go outside of the RAF panel and select who they want to use. Then they have to come back to us with the invoices and they can claim the monies used. We have a capped limit on how much monies can be used,” she said. Members of Nafupa SA met Sihle Zikalala, MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, on Friday when he addressed their concerns. He noted that while there was a need for transformation, there was equally a need to 
ensure that this was done within the confines of the law and the constitution and in a manner which did not exclude anyone. Zikalala is due to meet the National Funeral Parlours Association (Nafupa) and other concerned funeral associations at the Dube Trade Port today. Mlungisi Chiliza, Nafupa public relations officer, said they were hopeful that an amicable solution could be reached without having to resort to banning other service providers from working in townships and rural areas. Chiliza added that they would consider taking legal action if there was no resolution agreed upon after the MEC’s meeting. Daily News