Durban - Two Department of Health facilities in KwaZulu-Natal were rocked by two separate shootings over the weekend. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, police spokesperson confirmed the two shootings at King Dinuzulu Hospital and Umlazi U Clinic. “On 26 January 2018 at about 11.23pm, SAPS Sydenham received a complaint of murder and proceeded to King Dinuzulu Hospital. The members found the body of an unknown man lying on the ground with gunshot wounds inflicted in his body. It is alleged that the deceased was trying to break into the hospital and was caught by a security guard. The suspect attempted to stab the security guard, the security guard then produced his firearm and fatally shot the victim,” said Mbhele. Mbhele said a case of murder was opened at the Sydenham police station and a 35-year-old man was arrested. He is set to appear on Monday in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. Mbhele said that another similar incident took place on Saturday at about 7.30pm. “Three colleagues allegedly had a work-related argument then one of them produced the firearm and shot at his colleagues at a health institution in U section, Umlazi. One died at the scene with multiple gunshot wounds. The other sustained critical gunshot wounds and was taken to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” said Mbhele. Mbhele said the man was arrested and was charged with two counts of murder and will appear at the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court soon. The KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo expressed his deepest condolences to the families of two security supervisors who were allegedly shot and killed by a security officer at Umlazi U Clinic on Saturday night. "We are deeply pained by the fact that they demised at one of our health facilities, allegedly at the hands of someone who was tasked with looking after state property and the safety of the public, including that of the people that he allegedly killed," Dhlomo said. “Regarding the incident at King Dinuzulu Hospital, this is yet another worrying example of the moral decay in our society that we find ourselves confronted by. It is inconceivable that anyone would want to break into a health facility – something that would undoubtedly sabotage its operations and potentially place the lives of innocent people at risk. We commend Kenyon Security for being vigilant in protecting state property. It is regrettable that a life has been lost. But if these people had not resorted to what they did, none of this would have happened,” Dhlomo continued. Daily News