The appeal comes after two Grade R pupils from a Verulam primary school went missing since the start of the school year. While both children have been found and reunited with their families, the department has urged parents to educate their children. Kwazi Mthethwa, a department spokesperson, said parents needed to write their contact details on labels or cards and place them on their children’s schoolbags or inside their school message books. Should a child go missing, the parents’ contact details would be easy to find and the child can be reunited with his or her parents sooner. On Tuesday, a Grade R pupil from Everest Heights Primary School in Verulam was found and taken to the Reaction Unit SA (Rusa) offices. Prem Balram of Rusa said Simphiwe Gift was unable to provide his home address or his parents’ contact details. Rusa posted a photograph of the five-year-old on their Facebook page. The post was seen by the people Simphiwe’s mother works for and the two were reunited. Balram said it was claimed that her son’s transport had left him stranded at his school. Last week 5-year-old Snothando was found wandering through Everest Heights after completing her first day of school. Also a pupil at Everest Heights Primary School, the Grade R pupil walked home after she did not see the taxi meant to take her home parked nearby. The Daily News reported that Snothando was found by a man in the area and taken to a house. She was reunited with her grandmother later that night. Mthethwa said parents needed to get to know their child’s teachers. “They must work with teachers and form an active relationship where they communicate regularly. “Parents must also educate their children on the importance of not wandering off alone. Children must be taught to walk in groups and must inform teachers when they are leaving school. “Parents must also know the contact details of people transporting their children to and from school,” he explained. Drivers “At the same time, these drivers need to know where the children they collect and drop off every day live. They must not assume that just because they fetch a child from a certain bus stop that the child lives nearby,” he said. A former teacher at a Durban primary school said that at the start of the new school year, she would prepare a list with  each pupil’s name, name and contact details of the parents and contact details of the transport provider. “I always tell parents that they hire these services and we as teachers will not contact any transport provider for any reason. However, we will gladly inform the parent should we know of a provider who is shirking on their duties. “The onus is on the parent to complain or discontinue the services,” she said. Vee Gani, from the South Durban Parents’ Association in KZN, said parents needed to take into account that Grade R pupils were new to the school environment and therefore need to be handled with extra care. “We need to take into consideration that this is a new place and they need to be assisted until they are familiar with the system,” he said. “Especially in a case with Grade R pupils, the school needs to know who is taking the child home and ensure that a proper handover is done. The school must also keep contact numbers of parents. “Another factor to consider is that children need to be taught that if their transport is not there, they should not leave. Instead, they should wait at the school.” Daily News