KwaZulu-Natal achieved a 72.8% pass rate, compared to the 2016 matric pass rate of 69.5%. Nomsa Marchesi, DA MP and education spokesperson, said there had not been talk about the drop-outs. “This achievement cannot be seen as an achievement because drop-outs have not been accounted for.  “This year alone about 40000 pupils did not write. This is a concern that requires research to establish what the problem is.  “If research is not undertaken to establish the problem, there is a big chance of a recurrence,” Marchesi told the Daily News on Thursday.  The national pass rate (including progressed pupils) stood at 75.1% and 76.5% without the progressed pupils. The matric class of 2016 pass rate stood at 72.5% Inspiring ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma said the pass figures were inspiring and a sign that education MECs, were doing what was expected of them.  “The increase in the pass rate meant that priorities were treated as such. We’re very happy with the performance of both the national and provincial departments.  “Education is one of the government’s priorities and it would seem that deployees are doing what is expected of them. We encourage MEC (Mthandeni) Dlungwana to continue closing the gaps,” Zuma said. The top-performing districts in their respective provinces are: Nelson Mandela Metro in the Eastern Cape with 72.6%; Vhembe in Limpopo with 76.6%; Ehlanzeni in Mpumalanga with 76.8%; uMgungundlovu in KZN with 81.5%; Ngaka M Molema in the North West with 82.5%; and Namaqua in the Northern Cape with 83%.   The Unlimited Child, an advocacy group for children’s education, said despite the increased pass rate it was time to reflect on the overall state of education countrywide. Candice Potgieter, the organisation’s chief executive, said less than 50% of pre-school children in disadvantaged communities had access to quality early childhood education (ECE). Foundation “This is bound to directly influence future matric results.  “When you build a house, you should build it on a solid foundation so that it will stand strong.  “The same principle can be applied to ECE.  “Proper groundwork in the formative years will ensure success later on in life. If a child has a good foundation of numeracy and literacy, their potential to succeed is much greater,” Potgieter said. Daily News