She was even more excited to learn the invitation extended to her parents and younger sister. Timera, 18, was one of three matric pupils in KwaZulu-Natal, and about 25 matric pupils nationally, who received this prestigious invitation.  In Pretoria on Wednesday, she met equally-excited Danville Park Girls’ High matric pupil Joanna Smith.  The third KZN representative, however, is unknown at this stage because the pupil had missed his or her scheduled flight to Gauteng.  The Naidoo family had just returned home from a holiday in Dubai over the festive season when Timera received the invitation.   On arrival in Pretoria on Wednesday, they were introduced to the other candidates and their families.  Timera said all they were told was that they were there to have breakfast with the minister this morning and would be guests at the announcement of the 2017 National Senior Certificate exam results at a ceremony tonight.  This announcement is expected to be broadcast live on SABC1 at 6pm. “I do not know exactly how I was chosen and how I have performed. I know that there are only three of us from KwaZulu-Natal. Whatever it is I am just excited to be here and to meet the Basic Education minister,” Timera said after a photograph session held at Auckland Park on Wednesday. All invited guests have been accommodated at a hotel in Pretoria until Friday. Timera said the trip was like a second holiday for her family and, although she wanted to enjoy every moment, she was anxious. Timera plans to study medicine at Stellenbosch University and would follow in her parents' footsteps, who are general practitioners in Port Shepstone. For Joanna, the trip to Pretoria with her mom was extra special because it allowed them to spend time together before she moved to the Western Cape to study actuarial 
science at Stellenbosch University. “I was both shocked and excited to receive the invitation. I know the invitation would mean I had done well in my school, or probably in the province, but I don’t want to be overexcited about it. I am happy to be here, and grateful,” said 18-year-old Joanna. Speaking before the national announcement tonight, Basic Education officials on Wednesday said they were adding the final touches to preparations. Troy Martens, Motshekga’s spokesperson, said it was all systems go for the release of the results.  She said the pupils would know the reason why they had been invited during the ceremony. “We are ready and have prepared very well.  "We encourage pupils to get the statement of their results at the schools where they wrote their exams,” she said. A technical briefing will be held at the SABC Radio Park at 4pm followed by the live broadcast.  The SA Teachers' Union (Sadtu) on Wednesday felt that KZN’s pass rate would definitely improve from 2016's 66.4%. Sadtu provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said the confidence came from teachers' hard work and extra classes. “We are optimistic that we will get nothing less than 70%.  "The province is capable of achieving a 90% pass rate in the next few years should the department urgently address all the challenges affecting education in the province,” she said. Vee Gani, the South Durban chairperson of the KZN Parents' Association, encouraged parents to be extra supportive of their children before the release of the results. “Some parents tend to be too critical of their children’s academic performance and this can discourage children and lead to depression and panic,” he said. He said while not everyone would qualify for, or be able to afford to attend university, parents should make their children aware of other avenues to further their studies, such as colleges and Further Education and Training facilities.  *  The Daily News matric edition on Friday will include a supplement with all the 2017 results Daily News