Durban - A recent report on e-cigarettes have found that they are not toxic and are in fact less dangerous that regular cigarettes. The report, released by the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine last week, stated that smokers who switch to vaping reduce their exposure to lethal toxicants and carcinogens. The more than 600-page report examined the health consequences of e-cigarettes with regards to the population as a whole. Kabir Kaleechurn, Director of the Vapour Products Association of South Africa, that represents the manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers in the rapidly expanding vaping sector, said the report emphasised the need to separate the often ‘emotion-laden’ argument from facts. According to the report, “There is conclusive evidence that completely substituting combustible tobacco cigarettes for e-cigarettes, reduces users’ exposure to numerous toxicants and carcinogens present in combustible tobacco cigarettes.” The findings add to the already weighty body of evidence showing vaping to be far less hazardous than smoking.  Perhaps what is most exciting, says Kaleechurn, is that a major American scientific body has said in no uncertain terms what Public Health England, the Royal College of Physicians, the British Medical Association, and a slew of tobacco and public health experts have been saying for some time: smokers that switch to vaping reduce their exposure to the lethal chemicals which kill half of all life-long cigarette users, and there can be huge public health gains if smokers exclusively switch from smoking to vaping.  “This report marks a critical correction to years of false and misleading information about e-cigarettes, which has had dire consequences in terms of public opinion. We need to actively address these misperceptions about the risks of e-cigarettes, which can have real-world consequences for public health,” Kaleechurn said.  One of the United Kingdom's leading charities, Cancer Research UK, has recognised the potential health gains from giving smokers accurate information about e-cigarettes, launching a campaign to inform smokers why e-cigarettes are safer and encouraging them to try vaping if they would like to quit.  “The smoking versus vaping is one of the most hotly debated subjects in public health and this report will add more fuel to that debate in 2018. As the evidence for vaping mounts, so will more tobacco smokers make the life-changing switch,” Kaleechurn said. Daily News