It is alleged that the multimillion-rand project, which was meant to benefit poor black farmers, became a channel to loot the provincial government coffers with only 1% of the money having gone to actual farming. “This was a devious, corrupt scheme thought up by those who represent the ANC, Ace Magashule, Mosebenzi Zwane and their fellow comrades, to steal public money to pay for a Gupta wedding in Sun City. “But the worst crime here is that those who thought up this evil plan are still in government today. One of them has just been elected to the Top 6 of the ANC. The other is still a minister in President Zuma’s cabinet,” Maimane said. Read: Dairy project just the 'tip of the Gupta iceberg' The Mineral Resources Minister, Mosebenzi Zwane, was the Free State MEC for agriculture at the time while ANC secretary-general Magashule is alleged to be one of the key facilitators behind the movement of millions from the province’s government to fund the Gupta-linked project. “These are thugs and crooks. They belong in prison, not government. But the ANC will not act, because when you lock them up you will end up locking up half of the ANC,” he said. Maimane also welcomed the decision by the NPA’s Asset Forfeiture Unit to intervene and take control of the farm by placing it under its curatorship. He said this must lead to reclaiming the stolen money, and returning it to the intended beneficiaries. Maimane was speaking on the party’s KwaZulu-Natal leg of the People’s Forum Tour in Ntuzuma, south of Durban. He cautioned residents about the “sudden” tough talk by newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa on corruption and state capture. “It is shocking that the ANC says  it has elected leaders who will make a difference. Where were these people when our country was being looted? “ They supported everything when people plundered money at Eskom, in the Free State, Mpumalanga and in government, and then Ramaphosa says he is deputy president. That means he knew everything and supported it,” Maimane said. Daily News