This is the first order in an onslaught of similar court action expected to be taken against companies and those named  in former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s damning State of Capture report. The order was granted on Monday. The National Prosecuting Authority’s move to attach the assets of these companies, which allegedly looted R1.6billion from state-owned Eskom through an unlawful contract, has been hailed, with many expressing their pleasure in seeing the first step towards recovering about R50bn lost through state capture. It is unclear whether the NPA has served the order on the companies or any of the directors named in the court papers, including Trillian chief executive Eric Wood and former director Tebogo Leballo. Other names in the order include Prakash Parbhoo, a partner at McKinsey; Jean Pierre Georges Desvaux, a senior partner and managing partner at McKinsey; Veronica Magwentshu; Thabiso Legoete; Johannes Faure; and Daniel Roy. Trillian Capital Partners, Trillian Financial Advisory, Trillian Management Consulting, Trillian Properties, Trillian Securities, and McKinsey & Company Africa also feature in the order. McKinsey said they had not yet been provided formally with any affidavit or order. “Although we have read the recent press reports, McKinsey has not been formally provided any affidavit or order from any authority regarding this matter. "We encourage the authorities to share with us the documents that have been shared with the press,” said McKinsey’s director of external relations in Africa, Bonita Dordel. Rejected She said they could not comment on something they had not seen in full. “When this issue first arose, we launched a comprehensive investigation. We stand by our statement "We categorically rejected the notion that our firm was involved in any acts of bribery or corruption related to our work at Eskom and our interaction with Regiments or Trillian,”  Dordel said. Magwentshu, a senior adviser at McKinsey who was mentioned in the court order, told the Daily News on Wednesday she was aware that her name featured in the court order, but could not comment on anything until she had seen the court order. “We have not received the order as yet. We have only read about this in the media. At this moment I don’t know what else that order contains, so I will not be able to comment further,” Magwentshu said. The court appointed Durban-based curator Medwin Madoda Sifiso Nxumalo, of TKN Incorporated. He has, in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act, been authorised to take possession and control of the assets in question - whether inside South Africa or beyond the country’s borders. David Lewis, executive director of Corruption Watch, said that while the Asset Forfeiture Unit’s action showed there were people of integrity in the leadership of the criminal justice system, Shaun Abrahams “has consistently demonstrated that his loyalty lies not with the law, but with President Zuma and his cronies”. Daily News