Durban - A simple question was asked on Facebook and the responses it received hit home (South Africa). Festival enthusiast and social media entertainer, @joburgerofficial, focuses on what happens in South Africa, being a South African himself, but he also brings in a bit of international flare to his posts. @joburgerofficial posted this question to his Facebook followers, who are mostly South African: His post received over 800 comments, over 250 reactions and 29 shares. Here are some comments that relate to South Africa’s apartheid history: Tanya Bennette: If we could distinguish between disagreements and racism. Orlando Cliff Mphafudi: If Black and White parents can teach their kids love and respect no matter the Race, in that way our next generation won't experience racism at all. Dale Anne Webb: I am a Grade R teacher and I can tell you right now that these young children have no concept of black and white nor do they have any Ill feeling towards one another. It is us adults who teach it to them. If only we could be big enough not to pass on our feelings to them then there would be a chance that they could just grow up in the simple harmony that they have as young innocent children. I pray for the day xxx Mitzie Ginsburg: If we all were colour blind Here are some emotive comments: Dipuo Kgafela: If we could all have a braai and teach each other how to say "I love you" to one another in all South African languages Kagiso Ndlovu: ... If we all motivated and encouraged each other, showed love and support for one another, instead of bringing out the worst in each other and dragging others out of jealousy. Imagine if one congratulates the other for their success, one picks the other up when they're down, less hate, more love, life would be so much better. Dustin Mansel-James: If we didn't let social media dictate our opinions about race, and we loved each other's souls instead. We are all the same inside, what makes my heart beat makes yours beat too! Sean Sanger: South africa will be a much better place if everyone puts the past behind us and unite and move forward and when we have a serious government but until then we aren't going to get anywhere just my 2 cents worth But there were also really nasty comments which probably defeated the purpose of the Facebook post. We will not be sharing those. Daily News