The organisation said about 600 people would not be evicted and their homes would not be destroyed. Abahlali argued that the city did not comply with the consent order granted earlier by the high court and had continued with evictions, including those whose names were on a list of tenants who should not be evicted. Abahlali had submitted this list to the city and to the court. The evictions were carried out by the city’s Anti-Land Invasion Unit. The court order covered people from areas like Cato Manor and New City, near Mariannridge. Trudie Nichols, an attorney acting for Abahlali, confirmed the contempt-of-court application. She said the matter had not been opposed by the city and was placed on the unopposed court roll. However, on Monday the city filed opposing papers and on Wednesday the matter was adjourned indefinitely. Nichols said they would be studying the city’s papers and would be filing their response soon. Abahlali spokesperson Thapelo Mohapi was of the opinion that the late filing of the opposing papers by the municipality was a delaying tactic. “We see the municipality as being inconsiderate towards poor people. Justice delayed is justice denied,” Mohapi said. He said the evictions had affected people in many ways and some had been injured in the clashes with police. Mlungisi Mokoena, 19, is one of the informal residents on the protected list who allegedly had his home demolished. He said he hoped the court case would be successful and the city would be held accountable. He was born and raised in Cato Manor and said his home had been destroyed more than three times, most recently last year. He said he was shot twice in the leg during the evictions. “What has been happening to us has created a deep hatred for the municipality and the police,” Mokoena said. Last year, the Daily News reported on clashes between shack dwellers and residents of Bonela and Mariannridge over disputed land. The clashes resulted in shots being fired and homes being torched in Bonela. In the Mariannridge area, residents said the land that shack dwellers were using was supposed to be for them, with housing units being built there. Instead, the land was used by residents of the settlement called New City. The protests in the area also turned violent, with rubber bullets and tear gas being fired at protesters. The municipality declined to comment on the court matter, saying it was sub judice. Daily News