A week ago, she was allegedly abducted from Margaret Maytom Avenue in Durban North. One of the posts on Lee’s Facebook page read: “In the very centre of this photo is the beautiful Siam Lee. It is absolutely incredible to see how this entire group of people, regardless of how far we have all strayed, all stopped what we were doing and came together a week ago to try and make a difference and bring Siam home. “Whether it was halfway across the country or halfway across the world: this unison is truly something spectacular and something worth admiring - this is a true reflection of how special Siam truly was. And this isn’t even close to a quarter of the people who tirelessly searched for her. What an incredibly loved and respected woman! Gone too soon.” Sue Foster, a close family friend, declined to comment. On her Facebook page, she posted a photograph of herself and Lee with the words: “RIP my beautiful angel.” Although details are sketchy, it is alleged that Lee argued with a man on January 4. At the time, Lee’s mother, Nan, claimed the man had tried to pursue a relationship with her daughter and had become aggressive when she spurned his advances. On the day of her apparent abduction, the man arrived at Lee’s workplace and was chased by her co-workers. Later that day, the alarm was raised when the 20-year-old woman failed to return home. Mike Myers of Mobi Claw, one of the teams involved in the search for Lee, said he believed that she was a victim of circumstance.  “This has been a very complex investigation that led in so many directions, taking us into the dark underworld. A massive team effort was launched from the get go to try and find her. May she rest in peace,” Myers said. He expressed his condolences to the family.  “Every lead was a new hope that we would find Siam and this has been a huge let-down for all of us. As you work a case like this, even without meeting the person, you get to know them well. We all hoped that we would find her safe,” he said.  Myers said they would never stop searching for those responsible for her death. Kyle van Reenen of Marshall Security, another stakeholder in the search party, described the week-long search as being very long.  “We have worked non-stop with various role players and are all devastated by the outcome. We hope that by having found Siam, it will bring some form of closure to her loved ones. We will continue to support the police with the ongoing investigations into this case,” he said.  Andre Loots, principal at Crawford College North Coast said the Crawford community is shocked by what happened to Lee. “This is terrible news,” said Loots. “We are hurt by it. We did as much as we could to help find her. We distributed flyers and her friends started a Facebook page.” Loots said that as a pupil, Siam was free spirited, strong willed, a free soul and was committed to what she believed in. He said they are terribly saddened and will support the family and her friends. Durban North SAPS have released an identikit of the man suspected to have taken Lee. The man in the identikit allegedly left with Siam in a black Mercedes Benz Vito with unknown GP registration numbers. Police have urged anyone with information on the man’s whereabouts to contact Captain Raymond Deokaran at 
083 632 2849 or 031 560 8004.  Her body was expected to be brought to Durban on Friday.  Daily News