This comes after Eastern Cape gender activist and former Cope Youth Movement leader Anele Mda took to social media to voice her disgust at Wabantu’s behaviour.  She called for support to stop the entertainer from stripping in public by sharing the hashtag #STOPZodwaWabantu. Outspoken Mda, who was suspended in 2009 as the leader of the Cope Youth Movement, is known for her controversial, public lashing of politicians, including President Jacob Zuma during a Cope rally in 2008 where she called him a “rapist”. She had said if the ANC was re-elected into government, under Zuma, “rape would no longer be a criminal offence”. Mda posted on Facebook at the weekend: “I have been painfully watching in excruciating silence how we (women) have made mockery of ourselves and what is deemed to be our freedom. This concern has been from the applause that many in these streets have given the nauseating, pornographic and indecent behaviour of one Zodwa Wabantu (sic). “Her public nudity of not only parading herself totally naked has now escalated her (to) commanding people (girls) to remove their underwear (Khiph’i penty as she would call it) in public. “She leads this by removing her own underwear (which I assume she wore for the sole purpose of taking it off in public, because she had publicly admitted to not wearing any underwear) (sic).” Mda questioned why the public applauded such behaviour in a country with a high rate of rape as well as child and women trafficking. She said in a country where there was a growing culture of blessers, “where women trade their bodies for material things to men who are either wealthy or can afford this”, this behaviour should be stopped. “Police must start hunting this crazy woman and arrest her for public indecency,” she said. She said Zodwa was sending the wrong message to children and women about the value of women. However, Zodwa dismissed Mda’s comments as being “from someone who is not in touch with reality”, saying Mda missed the point. Zodwa, who has been making headlines for wearing revealing outfits at events including the Vodacom Durban July, is a mother of one. “I am an entertainer and I am used to those people who don’t like me and what I do. I assume that Mda is one of them. I wish people like her would understand that I do what I do for those who appreciate me and those who feel disgusted have every right not  to come to my shows,” she said. Zodwa said removing her underwear on stage was not a planned act, but her fans’ request during a gig in uMthatha in 2017. “Some people complained that I did not wear underwear. I decided to listen to them and started wearing them (sic), but my fans complained and shouted for me to remove it on stage and so I did.  “I do not think that there is anything wrong with what I do. The people who attend my shows are not children, they are adults. If you have a problem with it and are worried about your children seeing such things, then it is up to you as a parent to take control of what your children are watching on social media,” she said. Vuma FM radio DJ Nomfundo Mkhize said Wabantu came up with a brand that was working for her and taking her underwear off in public should not be seen as public indecency. “She does it at music concerts and I guess one should expect that on that platform. If she went to a shopping mall and did that, then that is a different story,” she said. Many women commented on Mda’s post. Tandie Nyalambisa said: “Maybe a campaign should be run on all women who deliberately disgrace us in public like this Zodwa Wabantu.” “I might be of old mentality, but I do not think this is right. If you guys can join hands and say No I am sure that your voice will be heard,” posted Matokelo Seturumane. Archie Klass said: “SAPS need to do its job to maintain law and order.” Daily News