The PTT will facilitate the provincial conference and Mchunu and Zikalala’s supporters are waiting to hear when the provincial conference will be rerun. Spokesperson for the provincial leadership Mdumiseni Ntuli said although the province was yet to be told about the PTT’s composition, former economic development MEC Mike Mabuyakhulu was expected to be the co-ordinator, while Zikalala would be the convener. The provincial executive committee (PEC), since its election in 2015, has been embroiled in court battles over irregularities in the process. The PEC is appealing against two Pietermaritzburg High Court judgments, one rendering it null and void because the conference was held before Mchunu’s term of office ended, and the other judgment over whether the PEC should vacate the office because of the earlier court ruling. Since ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa took office, there has been mounting pressure for the PEC to be disbanded, but the NEC had, because of the pending appeals, instead suspended it and handed its operations to the PTT. Ntuli said on Monday that the suspended leadership was only interested in the conference, which, according to the NEC, should be held within three months. “The provincial conference should be held either in March or April. Branch general meetings can sit within the space of a month. Therefore the projection of March or April is realistic. “All eyes are going to be on the conference,” Ntuli said. There are concerns among Zikalala’s supporters that he might not retain his position as his backer, President Jacob Zuma, is no longer influential in the ANC. Zikalala and Zuma had been the leading presidential campaigners for former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who was defeated by Ramaphosa in December. Ramaphosa had been backed by Mchunu and Mabuyakhulu, among others. “Who the president of the ANC prefers may be one of the contributing factors, but it is not the main factor. We were elected to lead and we have been removed before the term of office ends,” Ntuli said. Sources within Zikalala’s faction said he would fight to retain the position. But with Mchunu having been elected to the NEC and appointed a member of the national working committee, Mchunu’s faction will have to look for another candidate to contest Zikalala. Mchunu’s supporter said the faction had not agreed on who should contest the provincial chairperson’s position. “We are looking beyond people who we have been working with. There are many capable leaders in the ANC, which is why we have to broaden our scope,” said the senior ANC leader. Another senior ANC member said the conference could not be rushed. “We cannot hold the provincial conference, and then go back to deal with regional conferences. Only the PTT can decide on the date of the conference,” he said. A spokesperson for Mchunu’s faction, Sthembiso Mshengu, said he expected the PTT to be announced on Tuesday. He said branch general meetings would determine the names of those contesting for leadership positions. Daily News