Cash Connect’s joint chief executive, Richard Phillips, said the new product was a major improvement on their earlier product. “It provides our clients with high-speed, high-volume capabilities for depositing cash in the store. It will improve the speed and accuracy with which cash is processed in the retail shop. “It also materially improves the level of protection of cash and reduces the risk of armed robbery, and is part of the total end-to-end service to reduce the costs of cash handling for the retailer,” said Phillips. Phillips said in the country’s economy, 84% of the circulating R136billion was done in cash last year. That year saw three bank robberies and 152 cash-in-transit heists. There were also 75618 business burglaries. “We have always maintained the philosophy that in the South African context the products need to be robust and able to stand up to the kind of attacks we are exposed to every day, which are very violent. "In many instances, the criminals are well-versed in techniques of using plastic explosives. “A device that should be put in the retail store should be one that can withstand that type of attack without falling over. From the very beginning we have differentiated ourselves to ensure that everything we put into the market is going to add value in the protection of our retailers,” Phillips said. The vault will stand ready to accept cash at the retailer, then log the cash on the cash management service transfer provider immediately, enabling a bank transfer. The cash-in-transit service would then collect the cash from the retailer and transport it to the bank. Phillips said Cash Connect was doing very well in the province. “We are growing exponentially across the country and currently processing over R50bn a year of our customers’ money. We are rolling out between 70 and 100 devices a month. “The market has really become aware of the fact that our devices withstand the level of crime,” he said. Cash Connect said their clients ranged from private large tuck shops to large retailers, oil companies, wholesalers, liquor wholesalers, fast food outlets and other traditional cash-handling businesses. Revolutionary Cash Connect’s general manager for development and manufacturing, Pierre Liebenberg, said the new vault was revolutionary as it did not have the traditional hinge-door mechanisms found in most safes. “It’s drawer-based and opens like a filing cabinet. It’s a fully categorised safe using high speed and capable of accepting up to 300 notes a minute,” said Liebenberg. “This vault is built to a SABS category 4 security standard, which means it will withstand a concerted attack by criminals for at least an hour. Someone coming in with an angle-grinder, chisels and hammers will not be able to breach it in an hour. It can then take someone over four to six hours to achieve a penetration,” he added. Daily News