South African Malcolm McGowan, whose son, Stephen, was held hostage for six years by Taliban militants and released in July last year, said he wished Mohamed’s family strength during this period.  What made the situation more difficult was that Mohamed was a journalist, he said.  “They have to keep pushing for contact,” Malcolm McGowan said.  Mohamed was captured in January last year as he was making his way to the Turkish border with Syria.  He was captured with two other aid workers. The workers were released and he was questioned on what was believed to be a misunderstanding. He had gone on the trip with the humanitarian organisation Gift of the Givers Foundation. McGowan said the journey to get Mohamed back was a difficult one, and it was 
a journey that he went 
through with his son.  “Where there is life, there is hope,” McGowan said.  He also advised Mohamed’s family to ensure they stayed on the Syrian government’s good side because they might need their help with the processing of documents when Mohamed was freed.  He also suggested they look into getting a private negotiator who could speak with Mohamed’s captors. McGowan said Stephen was on the mend. He said his son was working at getting his marriage with his wife, Catherine, back on track. For Mohamed’s loved ones, the year has been an emotional roller-coaster. “I wouldn’t wish this on anyone,” said Mohamed’s ex-wife, Shirley Brijlal. One of the most difficult things was going for months not knowing what was happening.  “It has been a horrible road to travel,” Brijlal said. She had to receive grief counselling to cope with the situation. She hoped Mohamed would be back by April 18, his birthday. In the meantime, all she could do was pray and be patient.  “With patience comes reward,” Brijlal said. Patience was something she hoped Mohamed also practised and hoped he would use his faith as a Muslim to sustain him. Imtiaz Sooliman, the Gift of the Givers’ founder,  said he could not comment at the moment as any new information he might issue could endanger Mohamed’s release. He said he would provide information when it was safe to do so He did, however, say that trying to secure Mohamed’s release had been difficult. From January to September last year, no one among the many groups in Syria wanted to take responsibility for the kidnapping.  It was only after September that Sooliman received information that Mohamed was alive and doing well. For Sooliman, receiving calls of assurance was not enough. The Gift of the Givers Foundation wanted “proof of life” evidence in the form of video footage. Daily News