Department spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana said the programme was intended to mobilise all sector stakeholders to work towards “turning agriculture into a culture of the province”. “The programme, which will unfold over the next six months, is intended to unite stakeholders to regenerate agriculture into the province’s big GDP (gross domestic product) contributor. “Once the process has been completed, the framework could be adopted by the cabinet as a long-term guide for the government on the sector,” said Nkwanyana. He said last year had been challenging. “The year 2017 was not a very successful year, and we had expected that because we made many changes. We also learnt a lot from the outcomes of our changes, which will be very helpful going forward,” he said. The department said the sector was critical of radical economic transformation. “We are introducing what we call the “new generation of farmers and agriculturalists” where we are targeting the youth and women to get into the sector as smallholder farmers in rural villages (communal land) and on farms acquired through land reform programmes. Access “We need more primary agricultural producers who we assist in negotiating access to markets such as retailers.” The KZN department said last year it had announced a shift towards food security as an over-arching programme focusing on rural poor households in response to poverty levels in the province. “We set aside R200 million for this. We also introduced the one household/one hectare and one household/one fruit tree programmes. “Poor households that are interested in animal farming were profiled to benefit from the one household/10 indigenous chickens and one household/6 indigenous goats programmes. We have introduced what we call multi-seasonal planting, meaning that we will provide tractor support for ploughing, seeds and fertilisers.” University of KwaZulu-Natal-based agricultural economist Dr Maxwell Mudhara, who is also the director of the institution’s farmer support unit, said smallholder farmers still faced the challenges they had always faced. “These farmers still do not have access to markets and inputs, making them unable to participate effectively in the sector,” said Mudhara. “Smallholder farmers do not know where to take their produce. This understanding has to be brought to them, because it is available. “The department has plans to aggregate their (smallholders’) produce and procure from them for its tenders. “This should be turned into reality, but to do that a lot of work needs to be done at ground level. “There is a realisation from the provincial agriculture department, which showed that it was coming to grips with these challenges,” he said. Daily News