On Monday, Raman pleaded not guilty to the kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and murder of 20-year-old graphic design student Kurtlee Pillay on November 4, 2014. In February 2016, Dinesh Nana and Bilal Tayob pleaded guilty to kidnapping and being accessories after the fact to both the murder and robbery. Raman had initially been arrested with Nana and Tayob and charges were withdrawn against him. The charges were re-instated shortly after Nana and Tayob’s guilty plea and sentence. Tayob received a suspended sentence and Nana is serving an eight-year sentence. Tayob and Nana alleged Raman lured Pillay on the night of the killing on the pretext of car trouble. They said Raman then stabbed Pillay and took his car. Pillay’s car, a blue VW Golf, was traced to a Durban hotel on November 5, 2014. Police were apparently told by the hotel security that they had found a car with no registration number and blood on it, in the hotel parking area. The guards then reported seeing men loitering around the premises. Police said the men tried to flee and had started disposing of some of their clothing when they saw the officers. They were arrested and police said several items that were being disposed of were recovered. According to Raman’s plea statement, read out to the Durban High Court by his attorney Anand Nepaul at the start of his trial, he claimed he had passed out after a drug binge. Raman said he fell asleep in his car after a binge and when he woke up and drove home, he was informed that Pillay had been killed. “I immediately rushed to Nana’s flat because the last time that I had seen Kurtlee was when he left with Nana and Tayob,” the statement read. Raman claimed he had been with Nana and Tayob since November 4 and they had purchased narcotics and alcohol. He said they sat in his car and listened to music after consuming the drugs and liqour. “After about three hours my car would not start. I opened the bonnet to check what was wrong. At this stage, Kurtlee was driving past. “He tried to check what was wrong with my car and get it started but failed. Tayob and Nana wanted to consume more drugs and asked Kurtlee to take them to buy it. They got into Kurtlee’s car and left with him,” Raman claimed. The next time Raman saw his friends was apparently when he went to tell them Kurtlee had been murdered. Raman said they then needed a “fix” and went to purchase more drugs from a friend of Nana’s who lived in the Belmont Hotel near the Point area. At the hotel, he said they called for Nana’s friend. However, Raman said they saw Metro Police at the parking lot of the building and fled. “I feared that they may arrest me as I was highly intoxicated and drugged,” Raman said. In court on Tuesday, Elkanah Matthew, Netcare 911 Advanced Life Paramedic, testified that when he had arrived in Sherwood, Pillay was in cardiac arrest. He said Pillay also had stab wounds to the trachea (in the neck) which punctured arteries that led to him bleeding out and going into cardiac arrest. Ruth Errera, the manager of the Belmont Hotel, also testified on Tuesday. She pointed out Raman in court as one of the men she had seen at the hotel in November 2014. Daily News