Durban - The Gift of the Givers have revealed that they have received proof that Shiraaz Mahomed, a South African photojournalist who was captured in Syria on his way back to the Turkish border, is alive.  Wednesday (January 10, 2018) will mark a year since his capture. 
Imtiaz Sooliman, founder of Gift of the Givers, said Mahomed’s capture was mystifying because the two drivers who were held with him, but released immediately, were told that “Shiraaz is being held for questioning to clear a misunderstanding and will be returned to the Gift of the Givers’ Ar Rahma Hospital in Darkoush in 48 hours”. However, that did not happen. 
“Dr Ahmad Ghandour, head of Gift of the Givers’ Ar Rahma Hospital, spearheaded the search for Shiraaz, risking his life on several occasions, traversing areas of intense conflict and heavy bombing to meet various leaders of the myriad terror groups, engage tribal leaders, medical personnel, renowned journalists and prison guards, all in the hope of finding some clue about Shiraaz's whereabouts,” said Sooliman. 
He said many people requested money to provide information on Shiraaz, but they ignored such requests. 
However, on December 26, they received an important call: "Don't talk to anyone but us, we are the door to Shiraaz.” 
Gift of the Givers responded that the proof would lie in the answers to a list of ten questions that had been prepared in consultation with Shiraaz's family.” The voice on the other end of the line asked for the questions, saying “you will have the answers soon”. 
Sooliman said the call came again on January 2 with a message that Mahomed gives “salaams (greetings) for his mother and family and to Gift of the Givers, he is very happy with the questions and wants to be released asap”. 
“Last night (Monday), was the turning point as Shiraaz's family confirmed that all ten questions were correctly answered and it could ONLY be from Shiraaz. The family were ecstatic. They all huddled together around the mother, Mrs Shireen Mahomed, and broke out in tears of joy and hope. There was an atmosphere of positivity, a realisation that in spite of all the bombing and unpredictability of terror temperament, Shiraaz was alive. The timing couldn't have come at a more important time as the mother had been admitted to hospital on New Year's eve with a cardiac condition. The waiting and uncertainty had taken its toll. Finally, we have proof of life. This was major healing for her. Now comes the daunting challenge - why was Shiraaz captured and what do they want? We await that "voice",” said Sooliman. 
Mahomed had gone to Syria to record and broadcast the hardship of the Syrian people, said Sooliman. He had delivered food and blankets in refugee camps. Sooliman said no demands were made, no ransom was requested, and no allegations were levelled against him of being a spy or working with the enemy. 
“Then why was he captured? Till now this question remains unanswered. Some commentators cynically suggest, without a shred of evidence, that Shiraaz manufactured his own capture under the guise of photojournalism to join one or other terror group,” said Sooliman. 
Daily News