Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson for health, said despite the damning finding by the SAHRC against the department seven months ago, matters were even worse. In June last year, the commission found Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo guilty of having violated the rights of cancer patients to adequate treatment. “The DA is extremely concerned by the fact that there are no new appointments being given to extremely ill cancer patients; patients are waiting for up to nine months to receive proper treatment. In some cases, they are dying before they are seen by an oncologist; volunteer oncologists are now only available once a week.” The department hit back at Keeka’s “grossly exaggerated”, “misleading” statement regarding the oncology issue. Dhlomo said globally, oncologists were scarce. “The department appeals to the media to continue to support its campaigns which promote mass screening for cancer. Screening assists with early detection of cancer, which leads to timely intervention by medical professionals,” Dhlomo said. He said a lot of the media focus had been on oncology, which is the advanced stage of cancer. “KZN is actually doing well when it comes to screening, radiology and chemotherapy. In fact, the province’s efforts in this regard are being bolstered through the newly launched National Cervical Cancer Prevention Policy and the Breast Cancer Prevention and Control Policy. The aim of this new policy is to ensure that the early symptoms of cancer are identified early,” Dhlomo said. He said the department used Liquid-Based Cytology (LBC), considered an alternative to conventional cytological investigations, also known as the Pap smear. “With LBC, a spatula or brush/broom-like device is used to collect cells. The cells are put into a liquid medium and transported to the laboratory for processing and reading. With the strengthening of early detection, there will be fewer cases of advanced cancer that will require chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery.” He said to resolve the oncology crisis, the plan included repairing and monitoring all health technology machines, regardless of contractual disputes and to adopt a management plan to deal with the backlog. The department was also working on plans to import oncologists from Cuba and/or India. The department, according to Dhlomo, had an arrangement with the Western Cape Health Department, whereby three registrars would soon be assigned to accredited facilities in Western Cape. Keeka shot down Dhlomo’s plan. “KZN will not be able to immediately reduce the nine months waiting list with the public/private partnership which they envisage to begin on the first of February,” he said. Daily News