Speaking at a media briefing, the association’s president, Muzi Hlengwa, said they were tired of asking for non-black funeral businesses to give them a place in the industry. He said he did not find their campaign, dubbed the Support Black Business Campaign, racist. Hlengwa said the idea was to allow black-owned funeral operators to operate within their areas. “White- and Indian-owned business already have their set market with their clients. This is about keeping black people’s money with black people. It is called township economy,” he said. Last month, the Daily News reported on a WhatsApp message which threatened non-black funeral parlour owners and undertaker services operating in townships and rural areas. Hlengwa said the problems faced by black-owned businesses were unique to them. “We are told to expose our customers’ details to insurance companies and we find these companies are communicating with our clients. So the referees of the industry become players too,” he said. According to Hlengwa, there was also concern about tenders being awarded for certain funerals. He called for this to end, for equality in the industry. The association has also demanded that black people who have policies with non-black funeral industry service providers ask for a refund. He said if they had problems getting their money back, they could contact Nafupa SA for help. Responding to claims of Nafupa SA members attacking non-black businesses after the February 1 deadline, Hlengwa said the organisation was not violent. Yongama Quma, director of the Federation of Funeral Professionals of South Africa, called for a resolution. “We should not allow certain people to further their political aspirations at the expense of ordinary South Africans. We reject the notion of excluding certain service providers from certain areas on the basis of race,” Quma said. AVBOB spokesperson Marius du Plessis said the call by Nafupa SA took away the right of a person to choose who they wanted as their preferred funeral service provider. He said while AVBOB was perceived as a white-owned business, it was a mutual society, which meant it did not have shareholders who received dividends. “The society is owned by its policyholders, of whom 80% are black, and these policyholders share directly in the company’s success through the allocation of surplus profits. Over the past nine years, AVBOB has allocated R8 billion of surplus profits to its policyholders (owners) in the form of special bonuses and free funeral benefits, over and above the value of their policies,” he said. In an effort to halt the matter, the Doves Group filed papers in the Durban High Court seeking an interdict against Nafupa SA, and is awaiting a date for the matter to be heard. Nkosentsha Shezi, Nafupa SA’s secretary-general, said the matter was in court. He could not comment because it was sub judice. However, he said they were prepared to meet the Doves Group in court. Daily News