Aman was diagnosed with leukaemia in 2014, which left Mikhail heartbroken.  He chose to bury himself in his books to distract himself from his brother’s illness. Mikhail was one of the 88.5% of Grade 12 candidates who wrote the IEB exams and qualified for entry to degree study, in comparison to the 87.61% who qualified in 2016. The 18-year-old Felixton College pupil said it was through determination that he had achieved excellent results and made it against all odds. His older sister, Serina, was diagnosed with autism, a neurological disorder, at birth and on top of that his family had to deal with Aman getting leukaemia. Singh said his schoolbooks were his only distraction. “I found peace in my books. I practised my maths all the time and this became a habit and a distraction for years.  “Although I was always a top achiever, especially in maths, burying myself in my books improved my performance at school drastically,” he said. Aman, a third-year Bachelor of Science student at Unisa, is Mikhail’s role model and inspiration.  “Despite being diagnosed with leukaemia, he still pursued his studies,” Mikhail said. His proud mother, Rita Sewpal-Singh, said she was not surprised by her son’s excellent results. She recalled how he would play with a pocket calculator from the age of two and had been fascinated by and passionate about numbers ever since.   “I give all the glory to God for keeping him strong with whatever life threw at us as a family. Instead of breaking down, he remained strong for his brother and sister and performed well in his studies,” said Sewpal-Singh. Mikhail has been accepted at the University of Stellenbosch, to pursue a BCom or actuarial science degree. Another top IEB achiever, 18-year-old Maseeha Ismail Bhorat, from Crawford College La Lucia, obtained eight distinctions and is following in her father and four siblings’ footsteps.  She will be studying medicine at the University of Cape Town this year. Her father, Dr Ismail Bhorat, a top KZN foetal specialist, as well as her three sisters and brother, were her inspiration to join the medical profession. “I want to help the people of this country and give back to the community. I want to contribute to helping the sick and since I am passionate about working with people, being a doctor will fulfil me.” She said over the holidays she had tried not to think about her results, but could not help wondering whether she would do well enough to be accepted at medical school.  Her mother, Nazreen, was with her when she received the news and said her daughter had worked hard and had showed commitment in her school work. “She comes from a family of medical doctors and getting into medical school was her dream. I am humbled that another member of my family is following in the same footsteps,” she said. Another offspring of another of KZN’s professionals excelled with six distinctions.  Ntinga, the grandson of retired judge president Vuka Tshabalala, was a pupil at Kearsney College in Botha’s Hill.  Tshabalala, who is Ntinga’s paternal grandfather, received the news with great excitement on Tuesday. Tshabalala’s son, Ayanda, died in 2005. He was a lawyer and had been a manager at Channel O at the time of his death. “His mother was a genius at school and my grandson always amazed us with his performance at school and I am so proud of him.” Ntinga spoke to the Daily News on Tuesday about how he had managed to juggle being in the award-winning Kearsney College choir and having to travel abroad in-between his studies. “It was not easy. I had to balance things and it worked at the end because I managed to qualify to go to medical school,” he said. Ntinga would be heading to the University of Cape Town to study medicine and follow in his mother’s footsteps. His mother is Dr Nozuko Mkabayi-Tshabalala. “Besides following in my mother’s footsteps, I always had a passion for wanting to help people,” he said. Daily News