She now wants to become a doctor who treats mentally ill patients. Winile, 17, from Bizimali High School in Nkandla, sustained a head injury from the attack during the June exams. She required stitches for the injury and subsequently suffered severe headaches, affecting her ability to study. Winile was attacked twice on her way to school while trying to defend her older sister, Afika, against the mentally ill man, who lived close to their home and often chased them.  That day, the man apparently tried to stab Afika and, when Winile intervened, pulling away her sister. She was stabbed on her head. Winile said her recovery was not easy. “This was a crucial time as the June results were going to secure my place at medical school.” After receiving the news that she had passed with eight distinctions, she cried tears of joy, saying her good results would get her a place at medical school. Motivated “It was through hard work and hours of studying. I would not have performed so well if it was not for the support of my teachers. They believed in me and motivated me to try harder,” she said. Winile said although she had always wanted to become a doctor, the attack had motivated her to focus on mental health. “Mentally ill people in a poor community like mine are not taken care of and are neglected. This poses a danger to members of the community who are at risk of being attacked. I want to raise awareness that being mentally ill is a serious condition that should be treated like any other medical condition and that these people should not be neglected. They should be taken to suitable facilities,” she said. Bizimali High School has no water, electricity or proper toilets. One of the teachers, Philani Dumakude, said they were ­overwhelmed each year by how well some pupils did despite the conditions at the school. “They study through candle-light, fetch water from the river and relieve themselves in the bushes. We still do not give up. We are motivated by the fact that if they achieve good results, more and more of them are able to uplift themselves and their families out of poverty,” said Dumakude. Winile was the only girl at her school to achieve eight distinctions.  Two boys from her school - S’mphiwe Ntombela, 20, and Sphile Ntuli, 17 - also made their community proud by obtaining eight distinctions each. Passion Sphile would be off to Gauteng to further his studies at Wits University. He has not ­decided between actuarial maths or medicine. “My passion is to lecture. I want to first get my PhD and then later venture into lecturing. I want to give back to the community by educating my community and empowering the youth with knowledge,” he said. S’mphiwe plans to study medicine at Wits University and help contribute to the treatment of chronic illnesses affecting his rural community such as diabetes. For more matric news click here Daily News