With classes starting next week, there appears to be no end in sight to the ongoing protests at the institution. According to Wiseman Madinane, DUT Council chairperson, unions are not budging from their 10% salary increase demands. According to the university, they had not concluded the 2018 salary negotiations in time for  January 1. After several meetings, the parties met at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) on December 15, where the CCMA issued a strike certificate as the parties had reached a deadlock. “We now have a stalemate. We are of the view that the negotiations between the unions and management are somewhat toxic. There are peripheral issues at play. We do not believe that (given) the way these negotiations are being handled, that it would yield any result. “We have revised the mandate for management to engage with unions, but that mandate is on condition that future negotiations take place under professional, skilled mediation.” Earlier this month members of the National  Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu), Tertiary Education National Union of South Africa (Tenusa) and National Tertiary Education Union (NTEU) embarked on protest action. Madinane said DUT is one of the poorer tertiary institutions and they were trying to adhere to guidelines set out by the government. He said they were trying to manage their finances and the higher pay demand would compromise other financial needs, including infrastructure maintenance. Professor Thandwa Mthembu, DUT vice-chancellor and principal, said that while they were not denying they did have surplus funds, they have accumulated R6.25m in student debt and require R1.2 billion for building and infrastructure maintenance. Initially, DUT had offered an increase of 4%. It was later revised to 5.5% on basic salary with a housing allowance increase of R200 with no once- off bonus. There was a second option of an increase of 5.75 % on basic salary with a housing allowance increase of 5.75% and no once-off bonus. Management then offered, without prejudice, an offer of a 6% increase on basic salary and 6% house allowance increase. This did not go down well with the three unions and representatives walked out of the meeting. Milton Estrice, Nehawu representative, disputed management’s claims that they are refusing to negotiate. “They keep saying we moved from the negotiating table. The truth is, we never left,” he said. Estrice, an electrical safety lecturer at DUT for 25 years, said the salary increase would greatly assist many staffers who take care of their families. “I am the breadwinner and I have children. My son is in varsity. This would mean that we have better buying power and help many of us,” he said. Daily News