PCB chief executive Melanie Ven-ess said this was to help the area’s citizens to support local enterprises. “We have several entrepreneurship projects planned, and our focus this year will be on trying to get the citizens of our city to support local people, products and services. “The first initiative is the production and distribution of “The Little Green Book”, which will list products manufactured in Pietermaritzburg so that they are easily identifiable in retail outlets, and services available locally,” said Veness. Proudly South African spokesperson Deryn Graham said many initiatives were to ensure support for local businesses throughout the country. “We commend every initiative to promote local businesses, to trade with themselves locally, nationally and internationally,” said Graham. “New businesses that want people to buy from them should also think about buying from others locally. If they are all buying from each other, they will create a cycle of activity that keeps money local and creates jobs and economic growth locally.” The PCB, which describes itself as South Africa’s fourth-largest chamber, came about through the amalgamation of the Pietermaritzburg Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Midlands Black Business Chamber and the Pietermaritzburg Sakekamer in 2002. It represented 800 members last year. Veness said the business environment was tough last year, with all the political, policy and economic uncertainty, the rating agency investment downgrades and the poor growth
levels. “Added to that was bottom-line pressure from several above-inflation services cost increases passed on by the government, which are impossible to accommodate in pricing, and substantial additional costs attributable to failing infrastructure. The environment was not enabling for the business sector, and business confidence was poor,” she said. The PCB said in 2018, business was hoping for credible leadership that would bring greater stability, policy clarity and renewed confidence, which would, in turn, lead to growth and job creation. Daily News