As the official opposition in the province, it is setting its sights on cutting the ANC’s support in the province to below 50% after next year’s general elections. Nominations opened on Monday, and will close next Monday with the provincial leader, deputy leader and the three deputy chairpersons all to be contested. The party’s provincial leader, Zwakele Mncwango, who is standing for a second term, said he had accepted his nomination on Monday to stand for a second term. The DA’s provincial congress takes place every three years. He said the role of the three deputy chairpersons was to assist whoever was elected as the chairperson by the congress, without having any specific portfolio. Mncwango said as the three individuals would have different expertise, the new leadership would decide what roles to assign to each one. “There is a first, second and third deputy, which depends on the number of votes each individual gets. So, if you get more votes, you become the first deputy, and then followed by the other two with lesser votes,” Mncwango said. Despite the provincial congress being only a matter of weeks away, Mncwango said the nomination process was not tedious because all that was needed was to get the nominations seconded and then put to the vote. “Our process is unlike that of the ANC, where they have to go to the branches; we just need one person to propose and another to second that proposal and then that’s it,” Mncwango said. Footprint He said the current provincial leadership, which took over three years ago, had set itself the target of gaining a footprint and growing aggressively in rural municipalities to move away from perceptions of being only able to campaign in urban areas. “We wanted to get councillors in many municipalities in KZN, especially in areas where we had no footprint - and we achieved this. Our province had been a bit divided and part of my mission was to unite KZN, and we were able to do so.” He said the party had previously been comfortable with the urban vote, but there was no clear strategy on how they would win rural votes. “Moving forward, it’s about continuity; our continuity is based on the foundation that has already been created whereby we’re a party of choice and the official opposition in KZN, so our vision is to chop the ANC to below 50%. “We don’t want to be too optimistic and think we can win the province by ourselves. We would (like) to, but we’ll have to work hard to get there. “We believe that what happened in Tshwane, Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay can happen in KZN,” he said. Daily News