Mvelo Lusiba, who scored eight distinctions, said he was extremely happy with the achievement.  “It means that I have achieved my goals,” he said. However, the road to eight distinctions was not smooth for the 17-year-old.  “In 2016 my grandmother died. She was one of my biggest supporters,” Lusiba said. The uMlazi E Section resident said he was looking at offers he was receiving, but his heart was set on studying actuarial science at the University of Cape Town, and he was looking for a bursary to fund his studies. Lusiba said he chose actuarial science because it was a field that would challenge him and he would get to do mathematics, which he enjoyed. Having discipline, being focused and setting goals for oneself was his advice for this year’s crop of pupils.  Mandisa Nzuza, another top achiever from the same school, said she was so happy that she could not describe her excitement. For Nzuza, who also achieved eight distinctions, studying became the focus of her life last year.  “I would study every day at home and at school,” she said. She added that she was promoted to Grade 10 because of stellar results in her first term in Grade 9. The 17-year-old advised this year’s Grade 12s to focus on their studies right from the beginning of the year.  Nzuza said she saw some classmates who were not focused at the beginning of the year and who struggled towards the end of the year. “I would like to study chemical engineering or biochemistry at the University of Cape Town,” she said.  Nzuza, who comes from a family of eight, said she chose to follow chemistry because she enjoyed the subject at school.  Their teacher, Njabulo Gwala, said the pupils’ excellent marks continued the school’s tradition of getting high marks.  Commitment In 2015, Kimberly Dlamini obtained six distinctions after her teachers allowed her to progress from Grade 8 to 10. A strong work ethic is the school’s secret to success.  Although schools open only in two weeks, at Velabahleka they have already started studying.  “The classes start at 6am and run until 3pm,” said Gwala. This could be achieved only with a strong commitment from the teachers and pupils, he said. Both Lusiba and Nzuza thanked their teachers for the dedication they showed toward them. Daily News