Durban - A recommendation by the  ANC  to appoint audit committee members for the eThekwini Municipality was rejected by the main opposition DA at an executive committee meeting on Tuesday on the basis that it had been "captured". The term of the current five committee members expires on May 29, except for two members who were previously risk committee members and whose contracts expire in 2019. Their term was extended during the integration of committees. The three members who have been earmarked to fill the positions are accountants and a lawyer. The DA's Heinz De Boer said they would not support the recommendation as they believe that the entire committee needs to be changed. “We wouldn’t have a problem in appointing these people. It’s an issue of the audit reports themselves. Audit reports are documents that you could take and see where the city has gone wrong or has done well. The question is why would we keep these members while numerous reports have not been made available to councillors? The committee’s performance last year was not up to standard so if we keep these members we will have the same problem. We won’t support this report. It would seem the current committee is captured. There’s no doubt that there has been a huge delay in tabling audit reports and we have had to wait for months for these to be made available. If this is the performance we had in 2017 then why not have new committee members?” said De Boer Mdu Nkosi, IFP councillor said he also felt that the committee members had been captured. “We suspect that this committee has been captured because we have been waiting for so many reports which have not been forthcoming. These (committee) are the people who should be telling us what is happening around us,” Nkosi said. Councillor Sipho Kaunda pointed out that there was an explanation last year as to why the reports were not forthcoming. “One reason was that there were elections and the other time there was an issue between the chair of the committee and the head of the department at that time. This, therefore, doesn’t make the entire committee incompetent and I believe that they are performing very well,” he said. While objecting to the committee, Nkosi eventually supported the recommendation along with ANC councillors. Daily News