Durban - Nearly four million people descended on beaches across Durban over the long New Year's Day weekend, the eThekwini Municipality said on Tuesday. And despite the large crowds, law enforcement authorities said there were no major incidents. According to the eThekwini Munciplaity, a total of 3 907 668 people flocked to the beaches between December 29 and January 1. The chairperson of the Festive Season Management Committee, Malcolm Canham said that even though there were large crowds, people were generally well behaved with no major incidents and drownings reported except for a few non-abiding members of public.  “The troublemakers were dealt with decisively and we issued over 860 warnings for drinking in public, fighting, illegal braais and bathing in restricted areas. This kind of behaviour is not acceptable on our beaches and we are clamping down such behaviour. A further 161 people were charged for unlicensed vehicles and parking in prohibited areas including motorcycle lanes and disabled parking bays. The swift response of our law enforcement officers also resulted in the arrest of eight people for cellphone and handbag theft, and some were caught with drugs in their possession,” said Canham.  A total of 33 rescues were carried out and 2 662 people received first aid treatment for different medical reasons. This includes five people who were sent to hospital for incidents comprising near-drowning, arm dislocation and ankle sprain.  The city said that despite issuing 44 033 arm bands to children, many still got separated from their parents. "About 332 children were separated from their parents and 328 were re-united with their parents. Four children were taken to the overnight facility and at present, three children are still in the custody of the municipality’s child minders," the city said. The city urged parents visiting the beaches to  look after their children and ensure they have their details tagged. The tag includes the name of the child and contact details of the parent.  The parents of the children who were still in the custody of the child minders were requested to make contact urgently with officials to be reunited with their children. Proof of identity and relationship with the separated child is required.  The contact number for the overnight facility at the Claire Ellis Brown Pre-Primary School is: 031 - 368 4119. Daily News 