Durban - The stench and then the appearance of hundreds of flies inside a Sydenham home led curious residents to believe that their neighbour could have died and was decomposing inside. Residents held handkerchiefs and their hands over their mouth and nostrils when the door of the home was kicked opened. Nobody gasped for breathe or spoke fearing the hundreds of flies swarming around.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The flies inside the residence. Video: Zainul Dawood The early morning drama unfolded when one of the residents in Howell Road decided to find the source of a foul smell around his home. Popo Zungu, the next door neighbour, said he had been cleaning outside and inside his home but the smell would not go away. On Wednesday morning he saw hundreds of flies buzzing around the windows inside his neighbours home between the net curtain and window panes. The windows were closed and the doors were locked. Zungu had also not seen his neighbour, who lived alone, since December. Zungu said the woman had been evicted from her home in August but had come back unannounced. "Her phone went unanswered and I got concerned. After the evictions, some tenants returned to their homes but did not want to be seen. I am grateful that police assisted us to find out what was causing the smell and flies," he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The flies inside the residence. Video: Zainul Dawood Sydenham police detectives and a representative from First Metro Housing who did not want to be named broke the lock on the gate with a bolt cutter.  Police found rotting food in the kitchen. The house still contained the woman`s belongings. Zungu got into the house and sprayed a fly repellant instantly killing them much to the relief or neighbours. "These were fat flies that must have been breeding in this house. Besides worrying about the woman we were also concerned about the flies," said a neighbour. Daily News