Gumede, a former first-year nur­sing student, was left stranded when a local nursing school closed down in 2015. The 29-year-old had lost hope of continuing with her studies when she was not refunded the fees she had already paid. However, when she heard about President Jacob Zuma’s announcement that poor first-year students would be subsidised, she saw an opportunity to get the education she was forced to put on hold two years ago. But first she had to get accepted at a tertiary institution. On Monday her hopes were dashed. After patiently waiting in the queue for three hours, Unisa officials announced the university was not ta­king any more applications for the day.  She did not have a chance to enquire whether her application would be considered as she had not made an online application. Gumede was one of scores of walk-in applicants who tried to secure a place at tertiary institutions in Durban on Monday. “I came here to try to register for a social work course with the hope that I would benefit from free education. I chose Unisa because of its distance-learning option, that would allow me the opportunity to work and study at the same time. I get a few jobs now and then, but the money is not enough to raise my three children and pay for my education. I am crossing fingers that I will get financial assistance,” she said. Although Unisa had announced it was not taking any more applications for the day, Gumede and other hopefuls still camped outside the campus until the afternoon. Some who came from out of town planned to find cheap accommodation to spend the night so they could be first in the line on Tuesday.  Another Unisa walk-in applicant, Dolly Gcaleka of Harding, said she had tried applying online, without success. “I do not have access to a computer at home. I tried applying at an internet café several times but failed. The university should make exceptions for people who do not have access to online application,” said Gcaleka. Some new applicants at the Durban University of Technology (DUT), who had hired minibus taxis to travel to Durban, arrived to find a notice at the Steve Biko campus entrance which stated that admissions were closed, and directed late applications to an online link. They planned to spend the night in the taxis and try their luck again today, although the notice clearly stated there were no guarantees of acceptance. Gazuzu Nduli, the EFF Student Command provincial chairperson, said they were still trying to get DUT to accept walk-in applications. “We are worried that these students, the majority of whom come from far, would be at risk as some will be sleeping at bus shelters and on the streets. Some had applied and had not received feedback and are here to check on their status,” he said. Noxolo Memela, DUT’s communications manager, said the university was not accepting walk-ins. She said their admission office was only working on its selection list of candidates who had confirmed offers. “Where influx and security measures are concerned, there are special security personnel at our registration venues and all entrances, to ensure a smooth registration period,” she said.  At the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) Howard College campus, applicants said they were frustrated at waiting to hear from the university and were there to check on the status of their applications. High-school friends Unothando Dangazela, Phiwayinkosi Mdluli and Zamokuhle Khwela of Inanda had been accepted, subject to receiving their results. “I could not sit and wait for the university to respond; I had to come and hear for myself. I cannot wait to begin my classes. I want to know where my application stands,” Dangazela said. Normah Zondo, acting executive director: corporate relations division at UKZN, said the university had received some walk-in applications which were being captured and processed as late applications.  “The majority of the programmes  and courses are now fully subscribed and closed for further applications. However, as standard procedure, the university has a process in place to fill spaces that may be available in undersubscribed courses,” said Zondo. At Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT), the long queues consisted mostly of first-year applicants who had not made previous applications. MUT spokesperson Bheki Hlophe said they were busy with selection and admission processes. He said there were walk-in applications, but they were referred to the Central Applications Office. Daily News