This is after the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) confirmed it would investigate MultiChoice over allegations of kickbacks of R100 million to the SABC in exchange for the public broadcaster's political influence over digital migration. The pay TV company that owns DStv and M-Net reportedly also allegedly made a questionable payment of R25m to the ANN7 news channel, then owned by the Guptas. MultiChoice is also accused of increasing its annual payment to ANN7  from R50m to R141m in exchange for  influence over the government’s position on the introduction of encrypted set-top boxes. The DA  lodged a complaint requesting that Icasa conduct an inquiry into the payments. Icasa  spokesperson  Paseka Maleka  said the broadcasting regulator’s complaints and compliance division would investigate the matter. DA communications spokesperson Phumzile van Damme said on Sunday her party was pleased Icasa had agreed to investigate the matter. She said the DA believed that while companies like MultiChoice should be allowed the space to do business and create employment, their conduct must be within the bounds of the law, in line with business ethics and in an environment where competition was not stifled. SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said the public broadcaster was not aware of the probe. “Obviously the investigation is on MultiChoice, but if they need anything from us, we will co-operate fully with the investigation,” Kganyago said. Capture The New Age, owned by Infinity Media, the majority owner of ANN7 and TNA Holdings, would also be probed in the forthcoming commission of inquiry into state capture. The terms of reference into the inquiry released by the justice department stated that, among other allegations, the inquiry would investigate whether there were any irregularities undue enrichment corruption and undue influence in the awarding of government advertising in the New Age newspaper. MultiChoice head of corporate communication and corporate affairs Marietjie Groenewald did not respond to questions sent by Independent Media. Mzwanele Manyi, who acquired ANN7 and The New Age from the Guptas through vendor financing more than five months ago, was not available for comment. The Guptas and their associates are at the centre of state capture allegations, which Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa said he was going to fight when he campaigned to be ANC leader. The Sunday Times reported that the three Gupta brothers Atul, Rajesh and Ajay, their associates and Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, would be charged with money laundering in the next  few weeks for their alleged involvement in the R220m theft at Estina Dairy farm in the Free State. It is alleged that the multimillion-rand project, meant to benefit poor black farmers, became a channel to loot the provincial government coffers, with only 1% of the money having gone to actual farming. On Friday, the Hawks raided Free State Premier Ace Magashule’s office as part of their state capture probe. Daily News