That was Pippie Kruger, the little girl who made medical history by becoming the first person in South Africa to have a skin graft of her cloned skin. Pippie, now 8, suffered horrific burns in 2011 when the bottle of gel firelighter her dad, Erwin, was using to light a braai exploded, hitting his daughter all over her body. The 3-year-old was left with 85% of her body covered in third-degree burns. The family raced from their farm in Lephalale in Limpopo to a Johannesburg hospital, where doctors gave her just a 3% chance of pulling through. But Pippie survived. She needed a skin graft, but did not have skin to enable doctors to do that. Then her mother, Anice, found a website for an American cell therapy manufacturing company boasting a method which enables healthy skin cells to be cloned into skin grafts to cover burn patients' wounds. Kruger contacted the company, which got in touch with their South African subsidiary. Pippie’s cloned skin was grown in a laboratory in America and flown to Joburg, where Mia carried out the revolutionary, and successful, skin transplant. Pippie, who is home-schooled, travels to Joburg every second week for therapy, and always pops in to visit her plastic surgeon hero. Mia had also grown close to the family, and when Pippie received the wedding invitation, she was overjoyed. Pippie, her mother and the bride-to-be did not have to wait until the wedding to meet each other. “They had seen pictures of each other and by sheer coincidence, recognised each other at a shopping mall just before the wedding,” Mia said. And come the wedding at The Wanderer’s Club in Joburg, it was not just the bride who had a day to remember. Although Pippie is in a stroller because she still cannot walk, she was in her element. “She had a special dress made and she even made me dress her teddy bear in stockings and put a bow in his hair. People made a fuss of her and although she is on a diet, I allowed her to have some of the wonderful food and pastries,” her mother said. Pippie had made a lot of progress over the years and her mother is “full of hope” that she will walk one day. Her favourite doctor also said she was doing very well. “She is a little girl with her own personality now,” he said. Daily News