Three unions - The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu), the Tertiary Education National Union of SA (Tenusa) and the National Tertiary Employees Union (NTEU) - representing staff at the Steve Biko and ML Sultan campuses handed over a joint memorandum to a representative of the vice-chancellor, Professor Thandwa Mthembu, at the campus management offices on Monday. The memorandum detailed nine disputes employees have: *  salaries; *  labour disputes; *  staff morale at an all-time low; *  high-handedness and bullying; *  staff not being treated with dignity and respect; *  departments are being restricted unilaterally causing tension and uncertainty in the workplace; *  Mthembu's closed-door policy; *  devious approach to staff benefits and conditions of service; and *  inherited outstanding issues which they claimed he turned a blind eye to. Nehawu spokesperson Milton Estrice said since Mthembu’s term of office began he had failed to address these labour issues. “Numerous discussions with management failed so we went to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) on December 15. Our plan was to take action and embark on a strike to demonstrate that without labour the university will not function,” Estrice said. Outside the Steve Biko campus and inside the ML Sultan Campus, third-year students wearing bibs emblazoned with the words “Operation Help” helped first-year applicants at the gates by directing them through the online application process. The campus was closed and there was a strong security presence. A notice at the entrance to the campuses, posted from a few weeks back, stated that applications were closed and late applications may be considered should there be vacant spaces. The notice gave an online link for late applications. Noxolo Memela, a Durban University of Technology spokesperson, said they had not concluded the 2018 salary negotiations in time for this year. Memela confirmed that after several meetings, the parties met at the CCMA in December when the CCMA issued a strike certificate as the parties had reached a deadlock. “Because of this strike action, registration is likely to be affected. However, DUT management assures its stakeholders that registration continues online. Management apologises for any inconvenience caused,” Memela said. At the University of KwaZulu-Natal Howard College campus, the application process was moving smoothly but there was a small turnout on Monday. Ntokomalo Baphela, president of the Howard College Student Representative Council (SRC), said application numbers had been low on Monday compared with last week. They were also directing applicants to the online portal. Sandile Zondi, president of UKZN SRC, said walk-in applicants were being assisted. At the Thekwini College in Morningside, hundreds of people applying for art and design, food and hospitality, travel and tourism and financial management queued to find out if they were successful in their online applications. Some of the prospective students had been waiting from 6am. Mdu Makhosi said his daughter waited in the queue only to be told at midday that the campus was closed because of a problem with the online registration. Makhosi said he would return today. Brian Khuzwayo, of uMlazi, said several prospective students slept in the car park to be first in line the next day. Some students who registered online submitted a list of their names to a representative of the College but had to wait while the Central Application Office sorted out a problem online. Daily News