Durban - Nompumelelo Zondi, a Hillcrest police constable, claimed she was "disrespected" at the Umgeni Road Home Affairs office while trying to help a colleague's grieving family get a death certificate. Last week Zondi, in full police uniform, was told by a security officer and a department official to leave because she had brought her service pistol into the department building. She said when one of her colleagues had died, she and another colleague went to Home Affairs with the family. “While the family and one of my colleagues were busy with the forms, I stood in the queue to help speed up the process. A security officer approached me and asked that I leave the building as firearms were not allowed. That was strange to me because I was in full uniform. I asked him if there was a safe to keep visitors firearms in and he told me to leave it in the car.”   Zondi asked to see the manager and was told by an employee the manager was not available. She said the employee, too, demanded Zondi leave the building. “I was there to assist the family of a late colleague and I was disrespected. If there is a ‘no firearms policy’, then there should be provisions for visitors’ firearms. We spent too much time arguing over this. The family ended up leaving without all the necessary documents because time was wasted unnecessarily. I did not have time to report this incident to my superiors because we were in and out of the police station trying to ensure this family had all the necessary documents for the burial,” Zondi said. She said she did not take the security company nor the security officer’s name because of the mood she was in at the time of the incident. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said it was “very wrong” of the security officer and the department employee to force the policewoman out of the building. “Firearms are part of the police uniform. If they had an issue, they should have asked for the officer’s appointment certificate. It would seem that the security guard was undermining the officer because she is a woman. Home Affairs is better positioned to comment on this matter as it happened on their premises,” Mbhele said. She said it was against the law to leave firearms in a vehicle or anywhere where it could be easily stolen. James Milanzi, the department’s head of security in the province, said police and investigators were allowed access into their buildings only if they were performing police duties. “If they are there to arrest someone or to investigate something then gaining access with their firearms is not an issue. If the station commander feels they were wronged then they should take the matter up with the office’s manager,” Milanzi said. Daily News