This is according to Mohammed Amra, the principal of Westville Pam Golding Properties who cited one client using a R2 million inheritance to buy a property to rent out as an investment. “People with money sitting in the bank were a bit nervous about spending it, but now they are more relaxed and spending on property,” he said. Dr Andrew Golding, the chief executive of the Pam Golding group, said it was hoped a less volatile political environment would eventually prompt a move towards an interest rate cut. Other industry experts are also upbeat, with Lee Ellis, the inland director of Tyson Properties saying that the market had improved since last August, with an increasing number of buyers discovering the secret of the leafy suburb of Westville. Despite recent headlines about crime - which also affected other local suburbs - the area continued to attract would-be homeowners. In demand Theo van Rensburg, director of conveyancing at Kloppers attorneys, notaries and conveyancers, said: “It has always been a sought-after place This is a village and has a special feel to it.” Property prices in the area have continued to increase as a result of the steady demand, said Gail Compton, the broker owner of Remax Tricolor Westville and Pinetown. She said Lightstone Property Solutions - which provides market intelligence and data from a range of sources - has said the median price of a freehold home in Westville had increased from R1.75m in 2015 to R2m last year. Chris Tyson, chief executive of Tyson Properties, attributed the company’s recent record-breaking months to the fact that the area ticks all the five boxes that prospective buyers should seriously consider when investing in property for the long term. These were location, accessibility, amenities, quality of life, and investment and resale. It is one of the region’s most popular areas and people stay for years, which was a good guide to the quality of life. Pointing to the area’s many amenities, the various estate agents said Westville and Cowie’s Hill were close enough 
to Durban to be convenient and far enough away to allow residents to enjoy the more country-like feel of the Upper Highway and enjoy lovely green areas such as the Palmiet Nature Reserve. Daily News