The Quintile 1 no-fee paying school about 17km off the main road to uMbumbulu had achieved an 81% pass rate in 2016 and 95% pass rate in 2015. “In March 2017 we had six new teachers who replaced six very experienced teachers,” said principal Nomvula Hlela. She believed this was one of the contributing factors to the school’s dismal performance. “Essentially, out of a total of 10 teachers at the school, I only had four experienced ones. Another challenge is the lack of parental involvement in their children’s schooling,” she said. Hlela said most of the parents in the area were illiterate. The school with 402 pupils in total had 50 matric pupils last year, while there are 52 this year. Situated in the rural area of Nkomokazi, the school has four classrooms and a hall partitioned by a garage door to form two other classrooms. “We have one Grade 8 class, one Grade 9, two Grade 10 classes, two Grade 11 classes and two Grade 12 classes,” she said. On Wednesday, the Daily News arrived at the school to find teaching well under way with the 52 Grade 12 pupils seated three to each desk. Hlela, who has been the principal for the past five years, said she put in a request in 2013 to the Department of Education for more classrooms. “We have no cleaners and no secretary. The school has been broken into several times.” Hlela said matrics started their classes earlier this year - last Monday. The school plans to hold extra classes in the mornings and on weekends. It will also be seeking help from teachers of neighbouring schools. Some Grade 12s said last year’s poor pass rate had put pressure on them to do better. “We have become used to the new teachers who arrived last year and we believe they can help us get a 100% pass rate,” said pupil Qhamkile Shange. Pupils use transport provided by the department as some live at least a 40-minute drive from the school. “The transport arrives every day, but sometimes it’s not on time. Last year, there was a problem with it and this meant we had to walk,” said Grade 12 pupil Thabsile Khwela. The school has three feeder primary schools and is the only high school in the area. On Wednesday, the DA paid an oversight visit to the school and the party’s representative Nomsa Marchesi said she was shocked by the state of the school. “I’ve advised the principal to put in a request for four more classrooms as well as experienced teachers. I will raise the matter in Parliament.” Co-operative Governance MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube visited the school. She told the Grade 8 class to start preparing now for matric. “This is your start. It doesn’t matter who you are and where you are from, your future is in your hands.” Daily News