Summaya Ismail Aboojee, 32, made the discovery when she tried to open a bank account on Tuesday. The bank, which has online links to Home Affairs to verify customers’ applications, advised her to have her Identification Document checked. Aboojee, who works at a clothing factory in the Durban CBD, had to take time off work to resolve the issue at Home Affairs. The department confirmed that its records reflected she was an illegal immigrant. Aboojee, a mother of three, now has to prove she is a South African citizen despite having a South African ID and a birth certificate. Aboojee said it required more time off work to get her or her mother’s hospital records, a clinic card, an official letter from the schools she attended, a letter from the ward councillor, her father’s death certificate and to take her mother to a police station to sign an affidavit stating that she gave birth to Aboojee. Once she has all the relevant documents she has to take her mother to the department’s offices in Durban. “The department has no empathy towards us when they make mistakes. An official casually gave me the requirements as if it it has been a regular occurrence. I hope there is no cost factor involved from the department’s side. “How many others are going through this because of incorrect data-capturing or computer faults?” Aboojee, who is emotionally distraught after hearing about her status, said each of the procedures was time-consuming. She has to get her three children, aged 11, eight and four, ready for school every day and also needs to hold down her job. Cyril Mncwabe, the Department of Home Affairs’ provincial head, said an investigation would be conducted. “If we find that anyone within our department was negligent, then action will be taken against the person. If the problem was indeed our fault, we apologise to her for the inconvenience caused. I will personally look into this matter,” Mncwabe said. According to the Immigration Act of South African, an illegal immigration is the entry of a person across the country’s border, in a way that violates the immigration laws and with the intention of remaining in the country. The term “illegal immigration” is controversial and human rights groups and the UN use the term “irregular migration”. The act states: “Anyone who 
enters or remains in the Republic in contravention of this act shall be guilty of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine or to imprisonment not exceeding three months.” Daily News