Durban - Police in KwaMashu, north of Durban continued with their various Festive Season operations in KwaMashu E over the weekend and managed to arrest 58 wanted suspects. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, police spokesperson said they were arrested for different offences such as drunken driving, possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, drugs, possession of dangerous weapons, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm, theft and dealing in liquor. “While conducting these operations, the members recovered drugs, unlicensed firearm and ammunition as well as dangerous weapons. One shebeen was closed down and liquor seized,” said Mbhele. Mbhele said that all those arrested appeared in the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Monday and are facing various charges. In other operations in the Maphumulo area, along the north coast of KZN, Umhlali K9, Umlazi K9, Durban Flying Squad and Crime Intelligence arrested a man who was found in possession of four unlicensed firearms at his house. “The members followed up information about illegal firearms at Maphumulo area on Monday morning. The house was spotted and searched. Two homemade shotguns, one 303 rifle and a 9mm pistol were recovered and a 44-year-old man was arrested,” said Mbhele. “The recovered firearms will be sent for ballistic tests to establish if they were used in any other crimes in the province,” continued Mbhele. The man was charged for the possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition and will appear in court on Tuesday in the Maphumulo Magistrate’s Court. In another incident, members of the police were deployed to Glebelands Hostel on Monday to conduct crime prevention duties. “While patrolling, they arrested two suspects aged 33 and 45 years who were found in possession of slopes of dagga and plastic packets of dagga,” said Mbhele. The men were charged for possession of dagga and will appear at the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. Major General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner welcomed the arrest of the wanted suspects. “I also thanked all members involved in these operations and we commit ourselves that such operations will continue in a bid to make our province a safe place to leave in,” said Langa. Daily News