Durban - The Hollywoodbets Dolphins are hoping to feature in their second final this season if they manage to beat the World Sports Betting Cape Cobras in their Momentum One-Day Cup play-off, to be played at the PPC Newlands Stadium on Wednesday. If the Dolphins overcome the Cape Cobras, they will play their second white ball final this season. Moreover, since the Multiply Titans lost to the Warriors in their play-off match on Tuesday, if the Dolphins win against the Cape Cobras, the final will be at Sahara Stadium Kingsmead this coming Friday, February 2. With that said, the Dolphins will field a different team when they take on the Cape Cobras since the experienced Imran Tahir and skipper Khaya Zondo have joined the national team which will face India in the first Momentum One-Day Cup International on Thursday. The Dolphins will however, welcome the return of Keshav Maharaj who was on international duty with the Proteas during the Freedom Test Series, also against India. “We have got guys there that have performed throughout the season. We’ve got Sibz Makhanya back in the mix as well as Vaughn (van Jaarsveld) from injury," said Dolphins coach, Grant Morgan. “Keshav led the team on the field in the last game against the Titans because we knew that Khaya would be unavailable so he will take on the captaincy role,” Morgan said. Morgan also said that the Dolphins would be lucky if the Cape Cobras prepared a wicket that turns. “No matter what, we will back our template and we back our balance in our side because if it comes to that we can pick four guys that can bowl seam up. “I’m sure that we will get a good solid Newlands deck and we’ll just have to take it from there.” The Momentum One-Day Cup playoff between the Cape Cobras and the Dolphins will be played at PPC Newlands and play will get underway at 1.30pm on Wednesday. Hollywoodbets Dolphins squad: Sarel Erwee, Keshav Maharaj (c), Senuran Muthusamy, Sibonelo Makhanya, Calvin Savage, Robert Frylinck, Athi Maposa, Zack Paruk, Prenelan Subrayen, Morné van Wyk, Dane Vilas, Smangaliso Nhlebela, Mthokozisi Shezi, Vaughn van Jaarsveld. Daily News