But it is not his obvious cricketing talent that is filling those who know him personally with pride, it is his demeanour and humility that shines through. A product of Hilton College and Highbury Preparatory School, but not of a privileged upbringing, Ngidi has been regarded as one of the good guys throughout his school career. Both his first team coach, Sean Carlisle, and housemaster Mike Mill attest to the gentle and friendly nature of the tall, strapping athlete. “It is one of those ‘good guy winning’ stories,” Carlisle said. “He has always been a humble guy with his feet on the ground, respectful and with perfect manners; all those attributes that you want to see in a young man. From Hilton College’s perspective, the school is over the moon about his cricketing achievements, but just as proud of the incredible young man he has become.” Carlisle coached the Proteas’ latest Test team talent for three years in the Hilton College first team along with former Zimbabwe international Neil Johnson. He noted that Ngidi arrived from Highbury with all the raw talent and attributes of a sportsman. “Even from a young age, he was a tall boy with natural athletic ability. He was a good rugby player and he also swam very well, and right from an early age that raw talent was evident,” Carlisle continued. “He was almost too good for most schoolboys.” Ngidi showed that raw talent, which has clearly been nurtured along the way, as he cleaned up the Indian batting efforts on the final day of the Centurion Test. He also showed a beaming smile and social grace when shoved into the media spotlight afterwards. This again is something that does not surprise his former housemaster. Ngidi was head of house at Newnham House, a post that is voted for by the rest of the house, reiterating the the young role model’s popularity. “You know how top sportsmen are not always the nicest guys, especially when they are teenagers? But this was never the issue with Lungi,” Mill said. “The boys were aware that he came from a much more humble background than many of them, but it was never an issue. Lungi never made it an issue, and the boys didn’t either.” Mill muses that it is perhaps Ngidi’s humble upbringing that shaped him to be such a cool customer under pressure - both in the day-to-day happenings of life and inside the boundary rope. “Lungi dealt with whatever came his way; his parents did not come up to see us much. I think transport may have been an issue, but it did not matter as he handled everything that was thrown at him,” Mill continued. “Lungi’s real legacy that he left behind in the house is not as a cricketer, it is more as a person. This idea of treating everyone the same and equally was big for him. If he was having a bad day, it did not become anyone else’s problem.” Daily News