Speaking at a media briefing in Glenwood last week, Mlungisi Chiliza, Nafupa public relations officer, said they were not part of a call made by a breakaway faction of their organisation. According to Chiliza, the organisation was formed in 2015. He said a group of disgruntled members then broke away and called themselves the National Funeral Practitioners’ Association South Africa (Nafupa SA). Last month, the Daily News reported on a WhatsApp message which threatened non-black funeral parlour owners and undertaking services operating in townships and rural areas. At the time, Nkosentsha Shezi, Nafupa SA’s secretary-general, could not confirm if the message was generated by members of his organisation. However, he said he stood behind the point that the message was making. “I do believe that the message is being misinterpreted. All we are saying is that we are tired of black people being consumers and not producers. We are calling for equity in this sector. We have taken a resolution to reserve townships for black funeral business,” he said. Chiliza said a meeting was held on Wednesday by members of Nafupa SA where they threatened to shut down KwaMashu and uMlazi from February 1 to all non-black funeral businesses. “They went as far as saying they will burn the vehicles of these businesses and, as Nafupa, we cannot allow this to happen,” Chiliza said. He called for unity between the two groups and said they would contact the police to inform them of the threats. He further sought to calm residents, who had taken out policies with non-black funeral businesses, that they would be protected against these threats. Sihle Zikalala, the Economic Development and Tourism MEC, said they would engage with the relevant parties to resolve the matter. Chiliza said that meeting had yet to take place. “When we contacted the MEC’s office, all we got was a three-sentence reply informing us that our e-mail was noted. We need this to be handled as a matter of urgency,” Chiliza said. Nqaki Ndaba, Nafupa’s secretary-general, said a meeting was held between executives of Nafupa and Nafupa SA. He said the groups could not reach an amicable resolution. “Like we said previously, we distance ourselves from the messages on social media. If need be, we will engage the services of the SAPS to bring an end to this. We also call on the government to step in,” he said. Ndaba added they would be considering laying a charge of intimidation against Nafupa SA because of the threats made against non-black funeral services and undertakers. Shezi said while Nafupa SA was not a violent organisation, they would do whatever it took to fight their cause. “I know that many people are interested in our call. This is about radical economic transformation,” he said. Daily News