Born and raised in Ixopo in the Midlands, Zondo relayed an emotional story of how a businessman helped him achieve his dream.  Zondo’s story, captured in a short video clip during his interview with the Judicial Service Commission (JSC), resurfaced online on Tuesday.   The story tells of a 17-year-old Zondo in 1977 receiving a loan for food from now-retired Port Shepstone businessman Suleman Bux, who owned a supermarket in Ixopo.  That act of kindness has remained with Zondo, he says, and 40 years later it is the driving force behind his acts of kindness toward the less fortunate.  “When I finished matric, I was confident I would get an exemption and qualify to go to university. I was confident I was going to get a bursary too, but my problem was the situation at home was quite bad. My mother lost her job two years before my matric,” he said in the clip. His mother  exhausted all her savings. “Somehow I felt that the community had seen how my mother struggled to raise us on her own and expected me to look for work after matric to support her. I wanted to go and do law and was determined, but I felt I couldn’t do that unless I made arrangements to ensure my mother and siblings would have something to eat.” When he approached Bux for a loan, he said, it was “very interesting that he didn’t ask many questions and agreed to help me”. “He said he can’t give me money but will give me a voucher to give to my mother for groceries. Each month my mother would collect groceries up to the value of R20 at his shop until I finished my degree.” The oral agreement continued for three years and in the clip an emotional Zondo said he was touched by Bux’s humility when he refused to accept repayment for the loan. “When I asked him what arrangements we could make so that I could repay him, he said don’t worry. Do to others what I have done to you. I thought that was very important and in my own small way I try to do that.”  Zondo attended St Mary’s Seminary in Ixopo and continued his tertiary education at the University of Zululand and the University of Natal. He was admitted as an attorney in 1989 and practised as a partner in Mathe & Zondo Inc. In 1997, he was appointed a judge of the Labour Court and in 1999 he was appointed to the Transvaal Provincial Division of the High Court (later the North Gauteng High Court, now the Gauteng Division).  In 2000, he was elevated to judge president of the Labour Court, a post in which he served for 10 years. In 2010, he returned to the Pretoria High Court and from November 2011 to May 2012, Zondo served as an acting judge of the Constitutional Court. In June 2017, President Jacob Zuma appointed Zondo to the office of deputy chief justice, succeeding Dikgang Moseneke, who retired in 2016. Daily News