This was according to fellow cyclist Mirelle Gerhard, who testified on Wednesday in the trial of Omesh Ramnarain, the driver accused of crashing into Richard da Silva and Jared Dwyer in February 2016. At the start of the trial this week in the Durban Magistrate’s Court, Ramnarain pleaded not guilty to the charges of culpable homicide, driving under the influence of alcohol and reckless and negligent driving. According to his plea statement, read out to the court on Monday by his lawyer, advocate Murray Pitman, Ramnarain said he was not speeding, nor was he drunk at the time. He said he was driving home from an evening out at a club when he heard a loud bang and his windscreen shattered. He claimed he had drunk four ciders, and patrons at the venue had spilled drinks on him. In court on Wednesday, Gerhard said the group had set off for their ride just after 5am. “We went over the bridge and were in single file. We are very strict about how cyclists ride. I greeted Richard and he moved to the back of the group. “I heard a huge bang. I thought a car had a tyre blow-out. Within seconds, I saw Richard landing on the tar. His body was like a rag-doll. I could also hear things hitting the ground,” Gerhard testified. She and three other riders cycled a few metres away and she stopped to “gather herself”. Gerhard said she saw two men running past her. During Gerhard’s testimony, Da Silva’s mother, Rosa, sobbed. She was comforted by family members. Earlier on Wednesday, runner Craig Anderson testified that he saw two cars speeding past him. “I could hear the cars skidding. I turned around and saw a black Golf GTi and a Mini Cooper, beige in colour, speeding past me. I then lost sight of the cars. On the way back from my run, I saw the crash scene,” Anderson said. Warrant Officer Bongani Gasa, of the SAPS accident combating unit, was also called to testify. However, the matter was adjourned to today for Gasa to gather his notes and produce photographs, which would be used as evidence. Daily News