Durban - A five metre long python that had just eaten an Inanda family's chicken was saved by snake catcher Nick Evans moments before community members planned to kill it. Evans of the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation said he was thrilled to have rescued the "absolute beauty of a python" on Tuesday at a home in Inanda, north of Durban. "Very, very rarely do I ever get calls for pythons, so when I received a call for one on Tuesday, I rushed over there as quickly as possible," Evans said. He was alerted to the python by a Facebook friend, Holly Cairns who phoned him to say that someone she knew had a python at her house. "She gave me the lady's number, and I called her. She was in a panic. She told me that she was at work, but her family phoned her to tell her a python had just eaten one of their chickens. She explained to me that they were terrified it would set its sights on one of the children, and that someone wanted to kill it," he said. Evans said that pythons do not eat human beings and movies such as Anaconda wrongly made people think that pythons were dangerous to humans. Evan said that he and a friend, Keith Botha went to fetch the woman from her workplace in Hillcrest so that she could take them to her home which is in a rural part of Inanda. People who saw the snake said that after it had devoured the chicken it slithered away into a thick bush near the home. "When I saw the bush, I thought it was game over. It was a mixture of thick grassland, with a few thickets scattered between it. It may be a large python, but even so, finding it in here seemed impossible," Evans recalled. Walking in the thicket in the blazing heat of summer, Evan said he and Botha searched for a long time and were about to give up when they heard a sound in the grass. After spotting it, he said he grabbed a  piece of the snake's body that he could see, but noticed it was wrapped around a shrub to the right. "This was a big snake. As it started to try and move further into the grass, I grabbed the body (near the tail), and pulled it out. It was a huge snake! I couldn't believe we found it! What luck! I was ecstatic. Chuffed beyond words..." he said. He said that as he and Botha carried the snake towards the house away from the bush there was a combination of terror and amazement amongst the bystanders. "No one could believe the size of this snake, that had just been caught behind their house. Most of them came to touch it, as Keith and I both restrained it. It was their first time touching a snake," Evans said. Evans said that the community told him that before this, any snake they would see, they said they'd find a way to kill. "They killed a large cobra around Christmas time, which was in there house. Now though, they have my number, and promised to call rather than kill. Another group of converted people, who were most grateful for our help," he said. Evans said the Rock Python, now formally known as the Southern African Python, is a protected species and it is illegal to keep or kill it. You can contact Nick Evans on 072 809 5806 on nickevanskzn@gmail.com. Daily News