RBCT’s chief executive ­Allan Waller said that 2017 had been a tough year for them, which turned out well. “We achieved record import results at 75.4 million tons in rail, which is about 1.5m tons more than the previous record, as well as export records at 76.5m tons. That was up from 75m tons in 2015. Taking that into account, it has been a very good year,” Waller said. The company announced its production results last week. The results are a measure of the coal that has been received in Richards Bay from coal mines, and exported during the calendar year from January to December 2017. “We have also achieved the highest rail export month at 7.4m tons, and the highest weekly record of 1m tons. That was all done in a year where there were a number of challenges, and where we experienced unprecedented weather events in the port of Richards Bay.” Waller said RBCT experienced port closure for 38 days during 2017. “That was up 30% from the previous highest year of  29 days. The significant event is that we had two extended weather outages - one of five days in May, and one of four days in November - which put a lot of pressure on the whole value chain, but our resilience and stakeholders came through and helped us,” he said. RBCT said this year they were looking at 77m tons, which was a marginal increase on the past year. “We will have to work together with our stakeholder on the TFR side in terms of their capacities, and we are optimistic that the 77 figure is a conservative number and we can do more than that,” Waller said. Old equipment He said their plan from 2012 to fix their old equipment was coming to fruition. “Machines which were nearing 40 years of age, like shiploader 1 and 2, stack reclaimer 1 and 2. We then commenced with that project in 2015. We have commissioned ship-loader 1 and 2 in October and November respectively. The two yard machines are still in the final process of commissioning and expected to be up and running by March and April this year,” he said. Daily News