Durban- ANC voters want business friendly relations and not Radical Economic Transformation according to a survey by Institute of Race Relations.  The findings which is based on an opinion survey, found that South Africans were moderate in thinking and wanted policies that would stimulate economic growth.  The study also suggested that the ANC was out of touch with its voter base.  The survey, titled, ‘Ramaphosa and the Strange Workings of ANC Democracy’ was done by Markdata for eNCA and consisted of 5 000 people with more than 2 700 being self declared ANC voters.  Researcher Richard William Johnson who wrote the report said: “Much of the ANC leadership has completely lost contact with what most ANC voters think and may not even be conscious of the huge divide that separates their assumptions from those of their electorate.”  Johnson added that under ANC rule unemployment has more than doubled and is the chief cause of poverty.  “Thus far, then, for all its pro-poor rhetoric, the ANC has presided over increasing poverty and unemployment – and almost all the advantages of ANC rule have gone to the better educated and better off, who are able to benefit from higher public sector employment, affirmative action and BEE,” Johnson said.  Some of the key findings from the report are: Even in Dlamini-Zuma’s home province of KwaZulu-Natal, 57.2% of ANC voters said they wanted the ANC to ‘adopt more pro-business policies in the hope that business would invest more and create more jobs’. By contrast, only 19.5% wanted the ANC to ‘push on with radical policies aimed at the complete redistribution of all wealth and income’.  Support among ANC voters for ‘more pro-business policies’ stood at 75.9% in North West, 66.8% in the Eastern Cape, 57.1% in the Northern Cape, 55.9% in Limpopo, and 49.9% in Gauteng. Support for ‘more radical policies/redistribution’ was low in all these provinces – 6.6% in North West, 8.7% in Limpopo, 10.6% in the Eastern Cape, 12.8% in the Northern Cape, and 16.2% in Gauteng.  ANC voters were almost equally divided on these options in the Western Cape (37.8% wanted more radical policies, whereas 36.5% favoured more pro-business ones), and in Mpumalanga (34.8% preferring more radical policies, against 33.1% wanting more pro-business ones.) On race relations, African voters “feel unaffected by the campaign against ‘white monopoly capital’ or the general search to expose white racism of any kind. They are far more optimistic about the state of race relations than any other group (58.2% saying relations are ‘much better’ or ‘a bit better’)”.