The forum tried to disrupt operations at the plant, demanding to be subcontracted by the Japanese car maker. “Protesting outside that plant was economically irresponsible. It was negative on Toyota’s investment in South Africa and the people the company employs. What they (Delangokubona) did was criminal and could result in the suffering of the thousands of people employed by the company. Those employees have people who rely on them and to pull a stunt like this was playing with people’s well-being,” Veness said. On Saturday, ANC president Cyrl Ramaphosa reportedly assured citizens that SA was open for investment and wanted to offer policy certainty as it sought to increase economic growth and eradicate poverty. During his visit to East London to mark 106 years since the ANC was formed, Ramaphosa invited investors to be part of growing the country’s economy and create jobs. On Thursday, metro police were tipped off that the group planned to protest at the car assembling plant on Friday. Metro police senior superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said they had caught the group by surprise. “We heard through intelligence that the forum had planned to cause problems and we put a plan together to prevent this. They had no permit for a protest or picket, making the gathering illegal. We arrested two of the ring leaders and handed them over to the police. Metro police take a no-nonsense approach to illegal public gatherings and public disturbances in and around Durban,” Sewpersad said. Delangokubona leader Bhamuza Mnyandu denied they had aimed to disrupt operations at the plant. “We were there to demand work from a construction company contracted by Toyota to do some renovations and maintenance work at the Prospecton plant. We were prevented by the police from accessing the premises to engage with the management of the construction company,” Mnyandu said. Toyota could not provide details on Friday’s incident, but vowed to go ahead with its South African investments. Mzo Witbooi, corporate public relations manager for Toyota SA, yesterday said it might take some time for him to get a response from Prospecton because he was in Sandton. Witbooi highlighted an investment by Toyota which was set to start this month. A R42 million Toyota Empowerment Trust had been created and, according to Witbooi, was expected to focus on the training of specialised automation technicians. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a provincial police spokesperson, said four suspects had been arrested for intimidation and trespassing on Friday. “They were protesting and singing in front of the business premises in Prospecton. “They were charged, remanded over the weekend and appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday,” Mbhele said. Daily News