Durban - KwaZulu-Natal humanitarian organisation, Gift of the Givers are chipping in to send thousands of litres of water to drought-stricken Cape Town as day zero - the day the taps will be shut off - fast approaches. Gift of the Givers Foundation founder Imtiaz Sooliman said they have been receiving calls from more than 30 groups of people in the country who wanted to donate water. Sooliman said one group donated 10 000, 5 litre bottles of water. “It is viral and it is going to get bigger,” he said. Although the water donations were welcome, donating money was the more practical option Sooliman said. This was more viable as transporting large amounts of water from around the country will be expensive while buying from somewhere close like Port Elizabeth is cheaper Sooliman said. Water will be transported by Gift of the Givers’ trucks and will be stored at South African National Defence Force warehouses. The organisation was looking at other means of transport such as shipping and train. It said it was already in communication with Transnet about using rail as a means of transportation. There would be communication between disaster management and their hydrologist on digging boreholes Sooliman said. Caroline McCarthy who is the head of marketing and communications at Durban Preparatory High School said they had started yesterday with their water raising efforts. For the school, it is especially important for them as they annually do rugby tours to Cape Town and have strong bonds with the schools and families there as some of the boys get hosted by families there she said. McCarthy said if it continues they might cancel their tour to the city as it would be inconsiderate to make people host boys while they struggle with water resources. They will be collecting water until February 5 and have asked for support from pupils and parents at the school. Children at the school are already being taught about droughts as part of the syllabus and the current one in Cape Town will serve as real life example of a drought. EThekwini councillor, Heinz de Boer also said he supported the initiative to help Capetonians with water. De Boer said Durban which dealt with water cuts was still not out of the woods yet in regards to the drought. Helping the people of Cape Town would be in the spirit of Ubuntu he said. Daily News 