Schools that received late deliveries still have to sort out erroneous orders delivered by service providers appointed by the Department of Education. District meetings to establish exactly how many schools are affected are expected to take place today as teachers return to work for the new academic year. KZN schools officially re-open on Wednesday, but some schools that opened a week earlier have already established the extent of the problem. Ogwini High School in uMlazi is one of them. When teachers returned to the school last Monday and opened the boxes of textbooks and stationery delivered last year by a departmen-appointed service provider, they discovered the orders were incorrect and some books were missing. Vusumuzi Dlamini, the school principal, said they opened early as was the norm each year to get a head start and issue books and stationery to pupils in time, but 
instead they discovered the incorrect orders. Ogwini is one of the section 21 schools (schools that manage their own finances) that had placed orders through their own service provider and were waiting for the department to pay them for textbooks and stationery; instead, the department appointed its own service providers. The department apparently did so to get the best value for money, but school principals said this had caused more damage than good. Dlamini said they had expected to get the distribution of books out of the way and begin preparations for classes to start on the first day (Wednesday), but feared teachers would not be able to do so. A principal from a section 21 school in Empangeni said their first day of school would be affected as they had not received their payment allocation for textbooks and had not received the order from the department-appointed service provider. Nomarashiya Caluza, the Sadtu provincial secretary, blamed the department for the non-delivery 
of books. “While deliveries were made at some schools, some remain without books. This will impact negatively on the overall performance of the schools,” said Caluza. Allen Thompson, the deputy president of the National Teachers’ Union, said while district officials would meet the school principals today, they had already established that schools in Zululand District were the hardest hit. He said they have not been able to secure a meeting with Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana since last year. The department had not responded to requests for comment by the time of publication. Daily News