Double the length of a conventional safety match, the new long match is a first for South Africa.  Chief motivation was safety for those wishing to access hard-to-reach areas without singeing their fingers. It is ideal for lighting gas stoves, candles and braais.  “The Lion Match Company is expanding, innovating and investing despite the tough economic climate. We created the long match in response to customer requests for a match that burns for longer so  they can reach out-of-the-way places. It is an example of listening to customer needs and responding quickly. We see the new Long Match as an opportunity to open up a few more channels and talk to higher LSM consumers,” said executive chairman Gora Abdoola.  The existing Lion Safety Matches are bought by lower LSMs (1-5), but the new Long Match is expected to appeal to the upper end of the market (LSM 8-10).  It was launched in Shoprite Checkers stores from November, and rolled out to other retailers at the beginning this year.  An initial investment of R2million has enabled the introduction of a semi-automated line to produce the new Long Match. Further investment to completely automate the production process would depend on customer uptake, said group chief executive, Basie van Wyk.  Lion Match currently produces 7million boxes of matches daily, five days a week at its factory in Rosslyn, Pretoria. With about 42 matches in every box, this equates to about 30million matchsticks each day.  Matches make up just under 40% of the diversified Lion Match Group’s turnover, which is expected to reach the R5billion mark by 2022.  The group is currently growing at above the inflation rate despite the pressure on the FMCG sector because of a challenging economy.   According to Abdoola, the company has leveraged its 117-year-old Lion brand, together with its existing relationships with retailers and its established supply chain to diversify ­extensively within the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) space over the past 10 years.  “If you look at our base - matches - you find them in every retailer. right from spaza shops to hypermarkets.  “Each new product is only introduced following careful planning and extensive consumer and market research.”  Lion Quality Shoe Polish is the third largest shoe polish brand in South Africa. The Lion Match Company also has contract manufacturers, including Quality Products in Durban, making home and personal care products. Daily News