Durban - City Story, a new NPO has promises to turn the city crime and grime around in four years. This promise was made in a two-minute video by City Story representatives, Russell Curtis and Mphume Mkhize that has now gone viral on social media platforms. The video was created after the Carte Blanche story, in November that shone the spotlight on drugs and crime on the Durban beachfront and CBD. The organisation profile states that they are a passionate group of Christian individuals whose focus is to build networks and serve the city and see her grow into a hub of excellence. Curtis and Mkhize were standing on Anton Lembede (Smith) Street the exact spot where Carte Blanche reported on the unprecedented levels of crime and drugs in the heart of the city. "For those of us who call Durban home the sad truth is the Durban CBD like many, does have too much crime, prostitution and human trafficking and drugs but for too long as a city we as fellow citizens have looked away we turned a blind eye," Curtis said. Mhkize said the organisation has seen the problem afresh and they were there representing a collective of passionate Durbanites called City Story who believe that Durban's destiny is to be a great city to grow up in and grow old in. "We believe in creating a community of courage to see that dream come alive in our lifetimes. We know that we are not the only ones with a dream," Mkhize said. As a collective City Story want to make a commitment to  Durban that they will be responsible. "We will work with the relevant organisations and with the government to ensure that in four years time on 4th December 2022, we would be able to invite TV crews back to the exact spot, not to report on urban decay, but to report on our own urban rejuvenation," Curtis said. "If you are tired of turning a blind eye to the challenges out there or city faces or just don't know how to get involved in making a difference we want to invite you to be a part of our community of courage and together take action.  Anyone can join in," Mkhize said. City Story said they connect networks and individuals in different spheres of life and empower them to bring about a powerful collaboration of giftings and passions that spark remarkable change in the city. They plan to do it through intentional prayer, online platforms and supportive engagements they facilitate collaboration across the spheres. City Story also acts as a platform for stories of hope and testimonies to create awareness and build faith for our city. Thus far they have profiled the Nest Commune a temporary housing facility for the homeless created in September 2002;  Mothers Who Care established in 2001; Hillcrest AIDS centre trust established in 1990 dedicated to tackling the HIV/AIDS pandemic; We are Durban and The Denis Hurley Center who serves the poor of the Durban CBD.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Daily News