Durban- About 85 percent of people in the workplace are disengaged from the workplace. This announcement was made by the South African Rewards Association this week who based the research on Gallup poll that was done. In a press statement, the organisation described ‘disengaged’ workers as people who were mentally “checked out” and was going through the motions of their jobs. “These workers withdraw themselves mentally and emotionally from their jobs. The economic consequences of lost productivity due to disengaged workers is estimated to be around $7-trillion per year, but many of the costs are difficult to quantify because these costs are often intangible and untracked,” the organisation said. Disengaged people normally took more sick days off and were more likely to seek other employment opportunities. Muhammed Goolab, a spokesperson for SARA, said another reason that people became disengaged from the work they do, was because they brought “baggage” from home and other places to the workplace. Depending on the type of work, this could also mean that productivity would plummet with disengaged people he said. Goolab said there were people who were more disengaged than others from their work. To turn things around SARA, said companies should change three things which are, the organisation’s culture, communication and the rewards it is given. Employees look to employers for leadership and they look to leaders for leadership. The organisation said leaders needed to have the right skills to engage with workers and create “Secondly, companies also need to effectively communicate their objectives while at the same time taking employees along on the journey with them. Employees need to know and understand how their contributions make a difference in achieving the company’s greater vision, so their role and importance in the business needs to be clearly communicated to them. Communication allows the organization to be held accountable in driving engagement and deliver against what they have committed to,” SARA said. Lastly, the successes of employees should be recognised and shared. This should be done consistently, the organisation said. Daily News