Amos Ganyeni Ngobeni was also convicted on charges of house robbery, kidnapping and theft. Ngobeni’s defence had been that the women were all prostitutes and he their pimp. He had consensual sex with them when they could not pay his R100 daily fee. However Durban High Court Judge Shyam Gyanda found Ngobeni guilty as charged and commended state advocate Noxolo Dube for having proved beyond reasonable doubt that Ngobeni was definitely the man that Inanda police detectives had been looking for to solve many cases of rape in the area, dating back to 2011. Gyanda found that the State’s case through the evidence of witnesses and the victims corroborated DNA evidence found on the victims, which was also supported by evidence of the doctors who examined the victims shortly after the rape incidents. The court rejected Ngobeni’s evidence that he was a pimp to more than 35 women at Mahatma Gandhi Peace Park in Phoenix and at Ottawa near Verulam. His evidence that the women struggled financially and paid his daily fee of R100 by voluntarily having sex with him was rejected as highly improbable, as was his assertion that all the victims were prostitutes. The judge said it was improbable that all the women would open cases against him on the day after they voluntarily had sex with him. Ngobeni had testified he had done nothing wrong, as he provided a security service to the women. Gyanda said the women had all independently opened cases and had nothing to gain from opening cases against a man who gave them security. “The women had nothing to gain through theses cases. I believe that you labelled them as prostitutes and admitted to having had sex with them on the dates they told the court in order to try and explain why your DNA was found on them.” He said the most damning evidence was that of the minor victims who he denied having sex with, but on whom his DNA was found. A 56-year-old grandmother from the Inanda area was one of the victims who, although she escaped being raped, was scarred for life because of the rape of her 7-year-old granddaughter. The girl was sleeping with her granny when Ngobeni broke in and forced them to undress at knifepoint. He demanded money from the grandmother. When she told him she had nothing, he forced her to look in her wallet which only had coins adding up to R2.50. While Ngobeni pocketed the money, the girl fled. However, he grabbed a sheet from the bed and gave chase. He got hold of the girl, dragged her into bush and raped her. Some adult victims were approached by Ngobeni while looking for work, while others said they were accosted while walking on the road, kidnapped, robbed of their cash, cellphones and bank cards and then raped. Gyanda rejected Ngobeni’s evidence that the women were prostitutes. He said the complainants testified in a truthful manner and some were angry at the accusation that they were prostitutes. He quoted one of the elderly victims, a 56-year-old woman who said with much anger on the witness stand, “I have never been a prostitute. Even at my age, I would never be a prostitute.” The woman was raped on her way home from work at Ottawa. Gyanda agreed with the State’s view that Ngobeni had shown sheer arrogance towards the complainants, the State’s case and the court during the trial. Sentencing is expected today. Daily News