The department invited qualified enrolled nurses and enrolled nursing assistants to attend a job assessment programme at the hospital yesterday. A 33-year-old unemployed nurse from Inanda said she arrived at the sports field at 5.30am and finished the assessment process by 10am. “I was on the first bus that went inside the hospital, where we filled out the Z83 form and we were taken to different venues to write what seemed to be a 20-minute speed test,” she said. She said she finished training in 2012 after studying at Natal Settlers, and has three children to care for. She said she had to take any job that came along to survive. “How can they require 150 enrolled nursing assistants when there are so many people here?” she asked. “This shows how many nurses are out of work in KZN.”  She said the advert should have been more specific about where the nurses would be stationed, if any age restrictions applied and whether nurses were needed for Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital. “I don’t know why I chose nursing; I’m regretful now. Maybe if I took the money and studied business, I’d be elsewhere now. I wasted my children’s money.” A 41-year-old male nursing assistant from KwaMashu said he finished training in 2013. He said there were people he should be taking care of at home, but could not because he is not working. “I hope I get a job because in the meantime I’m doing odd jobs which don’t last very long,” he said. “I had a love for nursing, but now I’ve lost hope. I had hope when I left home this morning but after seeing how many people are here, I lost hope again, but I stayed in the queue regardless,” he said. Many of the nurses complained that they had been paying for their nurse’s certificate every year since they got their qualifications, but they were not working. Health MEC, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo said an estimated 8000 people went to the hospital to apply for the jobs. “It is sad when you look at the numbers of unemployed people who’ve been trained, largely by the private nursing colleges in the province,” he said. Daily News