This is until they are included with 36 others who will be receiving their back pay in January. Last month the Daily News reported that lifeguards embarked on an unofficial go-slow due to back pay dating to 2007 for the use of the craft. The city has 12 new jetskis which it handed to eThekwini lifeguards at that time. According to a lifeguard, the allowance for using power craft was separate from their salaries. The city last month denied re- fusing to back-pay some 30 lifeguards, and said any strike action or go-slow would be against legislation which deemed them to be essential services personnel. Speaking to the Daily News, a lifeguard who would not be named said of the 36 who would be getting their money next month, most were crew and not operators. “It doesn’t make sense to pay the crew and not the operator. “Last week the head of parks and recreation met with us and we gave him a list of all those who were meant to be paid and he said he would be in touch,” he said. The lifeguard said there were 26 names on the list and most were operators of power craft. “We are expected to work the major holidays and Sundays with no guarantee that we will be given our money. We are expected to commit ourselves to our work when no commitment has been made about money owed to us,” he said. The lifeguard said those expected to be paid next month were expected to receive amounts of R8000 to R10000. Municipal spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said all lifeguards eligible would receive their payments. “Any further discussion or engagement on the remaining lifeguards who are not eligible in terms of the relevant clause will require further engagement and deliberation on the course to follow. “Management is ensuring that those who require payment due to them are paid as a matter of urgency,” he said. Mayisela said the municipality would not comment on the amounts to be paid out. “The public’s safety is paramount and the lifeguards are deemed professionals and an essential service. Notwithstanding the above, in the case of an unforeseen ‘go-slow’ the city will do its utmost to ensure that alternate contingency plans are put in place,” said Mayisela. Any staff not on the list but deeming themselves to be eligible should submit the necessary certificates to be considered after January. Further discussions would be held with staff to pave the way forward, he said. Daily News