It is understood that the man was manufacturing fake matric and security guards’ registration certificates. According to police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, 58-year-old Zipho Thembinkosi Mhlongo was charged with being in possession of fraudulent documents. He said Mhlongo’s arrest came after the police learnt from an informant that he was manufacturing fake certificates at a house in Ntuzuma. “Police proceeded to the house and he was caught manufacturing certificates and was arrested and detained. Photocopying machines and toners were seized,” he said. The Daily News learnt of the man’s arrest this week during a press conference at the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSiRA) offices in Durban. Regional manager Talent Zwane said a man who had come to renew his certificate at their Durban offices was found to have a document that was not authentic. “After PSiRA inspectors interrogated him, they went to the house in Ntuzuma where he allegedly bought the certificate, where the suspect was arrested with the help of the SAPS. The suspect in the house was found with machines and equipment to manufacture these certificates, and apparently also made matric certificates,” she said. Umalusi, the council for quality assurance in general and further education, said it condemned all forms of chicanery and fraud, especially where certificates were concerned. “The law should take its course in all cases of alleged criminality, and the perpetrators must be incarcerated,” said spokesperson Lucky Ditaunyane. He said they had distributed posters with identifying features distinguishing between fraudulent and authentic matric certificates at police stations, universities, TVET colleges and public libraries. “It is not always easy to know where these acts of criminality are taking place until they are brought to our attention. “Umalusi is aware that two men were successfully prosecuted and jailed for selling fake matric certificates in Botshabelo, Free State, about three years ago,” said Ditaunyane. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education spokesperson Scelo Khuzwayo said they were disturbed to learn of the matter. “We condemn this type of act in the strongest possible terms. We do believe that all the relevant law enforcement agencies will do a great job in ensuring that this matter is investigated thoroughly,” he said. Khuzwayo said they also wanted to send a clear message to people to resist the temptation to buy such certificates. “There is only one way of getting a matric certification, and whenever a person is seen selling one, members of the community must report that to the police,” he said. Daily News