The non-filling of vacant teachers’ posts and subsequent overcrowding of classrooms in KwaZulu-Natal has forced SGBs to employ desperate unemployed teachers, who say they are being used as cheap labour. Out of desperation to get experience and enter the education system, many work for SGBs for R1500 a month. The Education Department has distanced itself from the underpaying of SGB-employed teachers, saying their employment had nothing to do with the department. Two teachers from a primary school in Durban said they would have a bleak Christmas for the second successive year. They were expected to perform the same duties and work the same number of hours as their colleagues who were employed by the department, who earned about 15 times more. “I took the offer as I had no choice. I had hoped that being a teacher at the school would give me an advantage when the post got advertised. Two years later I am still earning the same salary. The SGB apparently cannot afford to give me an increase,” said one of the teachers. She remained at the school because she hoped to secure a permanent post and be properly remunerated for her work. “I had hoped that I would be permanent by now and earning a better salary. With a salary of R1500 I cannot afford for my children to have a festive Christmas like other children. I do not think anyone would be able to survive on this salary; its degrading for a qualified teacher,” she said. Another teacher said she could only pay for her travelling expenses to school with the R1500. “There are many qualified teachers who are unemployed. SGB-employed teachers at private schools are paid better than at public schools,” she said. But SGBs at public schools have defended themselves, saying they had no choice but to pay willing teachers what they could afford. Vee Gani, chairman of the South Durban Parents’ Association, said schools had no choice but to employ teachers from their own pockets to address the overcrowding of classrooms, and quite often public schools could not afford to pay these teachers what they deserved. “The department has not filled vacant posts for years and schools are left with the burden. Unfortunately as much as SGBs would want to pay these teachers what they deserved, the reality is that they do not have the funds,” he said. Gani said universities produced teachers every year who were forced to either take SGB employment or sit at home with their qualifications. “The department has to bail these teachers out,” he said. Between 6000 and 8000 teachers qualify a year, and with close to 400000 teachers in employment, education is the largest profession in the country. Education department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said it was not true that the SGB-paid teachers occupied vacant posts the department had not filled. He said the department would always replace teachers who resigned or left the system, to ensure there was a teacher in every classroom. Mthethwa said SGBs created posts to boost learning in certain areas, and employed their own teachers. “The department would never pay teachers as little as R1500 a month; that is not a living wage. We have nothing to do with the agreements between these teachers and SGBs.” Daily News