The annual parties were delayed because the city awarded tenders only on December 10. City spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said this year’s programme which had a budget of R15 million, was delayed by tender processes. The parties bring joy to about 60000 pensioners across 110 eThekwini Municipality wards. Pensioners are treated to a lunch and receive a food parcel. Yesterday, 500 senior citizens were locked out of the Sports Charitable and Educational Trust Hall until ward 70 councillor Tony Govender appealed to its board to open the doors for the sake of the elderly. Board member Kenny Venkatasen, also the chairperson of the Silverglen Senior Citizens’ Club, lambasted the city officials for not paying for the hall hire in 2017 and this year, which amounted to R13000. Govender “put his head on the block” to ensure the payments would be made, said Venkatasen. Govender said he had submitted 953 pensioners’ names and the details of the hall to the city. He was awarded 500 tickets, but given no feedback or confirmation on the hall hire. “This is a deliberate attempt to discredit me. There was no catering, water, refreshments or sound system arranged. The city keeps passing the buck,” he said. Venkatasen said: “These senior citizens sacrificed and suffered under the old government, so they should be treated better. The city has a ‘don’t-care attitude’. They have no empathy. Officials must not take positions if they are not capable of handling it.” Several senior citizens expressed dissatisfaction at the turn of events. Sare Munien, 68, said the hall should have been set up for their arrival. Instead they had to queue in the parking lot for more than two hours while preparations were made. Govindi Singh, 84, said it was difficult standing in the sun from 8am. Vatha Manormoney, 86, said she was thirsty and her legs swollen because she had been standing for two hours. Neil Duffy, 60, said he walked to the hall on crutches only to stand in a queue. “It is a disgrace. We have been treated terribly,” he said. Sabitha Koobair, of Twilight Senior Citizens’ Club, said they took 20people to the venue only to be met by chaos as guests tried to push their way into the hall. Indrani Samu, a community worker in Silverglen, said they transported more than 80 people to the event. “They are old and frail and did not expect to stand outside. These are poor deserving people who need the grocery hampers,” Samu said. Evelyn Pillay, of the Women of Destiny feeding scheme in Westcliff, said arrangements for senior citizens’ functions should be a priority, but the situation appeared to get worse each year. However, ward 71 councillor Previn Vedan said, aside from the heat, everything went well at his event because he had a good team of volunteers who had planned the function. “We covered all the basics and had back-up plans. The 600 people were from all racial spectrums,” Vedan said. Ward 30 councillor Warren Burne said he had his party on Monday, but there was no entertainment, and hampers appeared to have gone missing. Burne said the catering contract had not been awarded and while he had 264 senior citizens at the event, 99 tickets had also gone missing. He called for an independent investigation. “It is a shocking indictment of the municipality’s administration,” he said. The Phoenix area was scheduled to have its event today, and the ticket allocation to councillors took place on Christmas Eve, said ward 48 councillor Bradley Singh. “I was allocated 600 tickets to give out in two days. Councillors had to call the municipality to make the hall bookings. This is an annual project so I cannot understand the botch-up. The challenges have been getting worse over the past four years,” Singh said. Last year, the municipality was interdicted by an unsuccessful bidder for the tender to provide the hampers, citing allegations of unfair tender processes. The parties went ahead. The matter is expected to go to trial in the new year. Mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said teams were working hard to ensure that the programme was successful despite the administrative delays. “We will check with the relevant councillor mentioned. All challenges must be escalated quickly to us to find quick responses,” he said. Daily News