In a press statement released yesterday, she said the City Press article that alleged she was being investigated was “gutter journalism”, and that the journalist did not attempt to verify the facts in the article. “It is imperative that the writer of the article make every endeavour to contact and to obtain a comment from the object of the article. To this end, neither I nor my office were contacted for a comment for our side of the story,” she said. Gumede also noted that there was no confirmation from Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi that she was being investigated. There was clear evidence that the article was written to coincide with the 2019 election campaign and the compilation of candidates lists, she said. On Sunday, City Press reported that Gumede’s arrest was imminent. It said the mayor and ANC councillor Mondli Mthembu were being investigated by the Hawks on charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering involving tens of millions of rand. Gumede said: “There is an unequivocal political agenda at play designed to influence political processes and further the intentions of some factions and ideological opponents. It is tragic that reporters are becoming a pawn in this political game.” Gumede pointed out that she had played a key role in forming the City Integrity and Investigation Unit, which investigates fraud and corruption in the municipality. “I urge the media to continue to be the voice of the people and to call to order the few that are close to degenerating into becoming propaganda mercenaries,” she said. eThekwini executive committee member Heinz de Boer said he hoped the allegations against Gumede were not a political ploy by one of her enemies. He said some of the issues that were raised in the article were relevant and he hoped there would be proper investigations into the allegations. IFP exco member Mdu Nkosi said Gumede should follow due processes. “The mayor has a right to take the matter to the ombudsman for journalists if she feels that her rights are being violated. However, she should also deal directly with the facts and give the correct information.” He said if a person was being investigated, they should co-operate with the investigation and not attack journalists, as the media report on the information they have at their disposal. Daily News