In addition, video footage of Miguel showed him wearing a jersey, while his body was found clothed in a jacket. These gaps in the State’s evidence were pointed out yesterday by Ebrahim’s lawyer Chris Gounden, for the court to consider when deciding on whether to grant him bail. Ebrahim, who faces a charge of murder in connection with the 9-year-old’s death, continued with his bail bid yesterday before Durban Regional Court magistrate Samuel Luthuli. Miguel was last seen with Ebrahim at a KFC outlet in Sydenham on July 17. His body was found about 100m from Ebrahim’s home in Phoenix, two months after he went missing. Ebrahim was arrested for kidnapping Miguel on his way home from school and granted bail a few days later. However, he was re-arrested and charged with murder on December 5. Gounden said the court should consider the fact that there were no witnesses to suggest that Ebrahim had taken Miguel on a taxi to Phoenix. Ebrahim’s version is that he boarded a taxi to town and then to Phoenix alone, after buying Miguel a meal at the KFC and then leaving him to walk home. Gounden asked why, if the State’s version was true that Ebrahim had boarded a taxi with Miguel, no witnesses had come forward to verify this. “To get to Phoenix, he would have taken two taxis - a taxi to town, and then from town a taxi to Phoenix. There is no one to corroborate the State’s evidence that he took the boy in a taxi. The information about the boy’s disappearance came to light immediately on the day that he went missing. “The passengers who sat with them would have remembered them. Their pictures were all over social media and in the media, but no witnesses have come forward,” said Gounden. The State believes that Miguel was killed on July 17, the same day he went missing. Gounden also pointed out that Miguel was found wearing a jacket, the video footage from the KFC showed that he wore a school jersey that day. He questioned where Miguel got the jacket from if he never made it home from school that afternoon. But Luthuli said these issues were not relevant for the bail application, and should be left for the trial. The State is opposing bail on the basis that Ebrahim is a flight risk and that there would be a huge public outcry if he was released. Prosecutor Kuveshnee Pillay said the case had attracted local and international media interest and there were petitions opposing Ebrahim’s release on bail. Pillay said Ebrahim lived at different addresses and had moved out of his family home for about a year. His movements could be best be described as nomadic. “The seriousness of the murder charge and the prospect of facing life imprisonment is definitely an incentive to abscond and evade trial,” she said. But Gounden disagreed, saying that Ebrahim did not have the means to skip the country. “He is a man from an average background. He does not even have a passport. A different court had released him on bail before and he did not violate his bail conditions. As for the public outcry, it was there from the beginning, from the time that Miguel went missing, and he was still granted bail,” he said. Pillay argued that the circumstances had changed because the charge was now murder. Daily News