Durban - As thousands of holidaymakers descend on KwaZulu-Natal and many more head home for a festive season break, authorities have vowed a zero tolerance approach to lawlessness in the province. The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mxolisi Kaunda has called on the people of KwaZulu-Natal to unite against crime both on the road and in the community during the festive season. Kaunda was speaking at the Dr Nkosazana Dlamin-Zuma Municipality in Bulwer on Tuesday where he opened a Driver’s Licence Testing Centre (DLTC) and participated in a multidisciplinary road block along R617 as part of the festive season safety campaign. The R617 which links Howick, Boston, Mpendle, Underberg and Bulwer is one of the major roads in the province where the law enforcement officers will maintain high visibility to curb road crashes and fatalities.  Out of 263 vehicles stopped during the road block, drivers were charged will the following offences:   In an effort to mobilise members of the community against crime, Kaunda also conducted a crime blitz at taxi ranks and shopping centres in the municipality.  Among the crime challenges in the municipality include stock theft and sexual offences. Kaunda said that as part of mobilising communities against crime and other social ills affecting the entire district, his department launched the Harry Gwala District Community Safety Forum which brings together law enforcement officers, community crime fighting structures, municipalities, the Department of Justice and the National Prosecuting Authority. “These structures will work together to ensure that crimes such as sexual offences and stock theft are reduced drastically in the area,” said Kaunda. Commenting about the opening of the DLTC, Kaunda said that as part of reducing road crashes and fatalities it was important to bring driver and motor licensing services closer to the people. “This DLTC will assist the people of this municipality, particularly the youth to obtain learners and drivers’ licenses closer to their homes,” Kaunda warned officials at the new DLTC against corruption that the Department will leave no stone unturned in ensuring that corrupt officials are rooted out in licensing centres. Two weeks ago, four officials is Underberg DLTC and one in Howick were arrested for fraud and corruption.  “As part of promoting road safety, the Department will intensify its fight against corruption,” said Kaunda. As the province has already begun to experience huge volumes of traffic on major road networks, Kaunda has urged all road users-drivers and pedestrians to exercise extreme caution and abide by the rules of the road. The provincial government has deployed about 20 000 law enforcement officers including SAPS, Road Traffic Inspectorate, SANDF, SARS and Home Affairs. “Our focus will be on drinking and driving, un-roadworthy vehicles, over-speeding, ulicenced drivers and vehicles. We have also developed a programme which focuses on hazardous areas for pedestrians, particularly around eThekwini Municipality,” said Kaunda Daily News 