Hostel killings, most notably those at Glebelands, have become a regular feature of the news cycle in Durban. Police and the National Prosecuting Authority have secured a number of convictions for these murders in the past year, with some suspects receiving lengthy jail terms. The Daily News has reported that the violence has claimed more than 100 people since 2014. Mary de Haas, a peace monitor, said there were “encouraging” developments at Glebelands. She said the convictions of people perpetuating violence at the hostel sent a strong message that the culture of people killing with impunity would not be condoned. De Haas said this was due to the work of a small number of dedicated police officers who made a difference, even though crime intelligence in the province had not been doing well for a number of years. “Glebelands is much better,” she said. Vusi Zweni, chairperson of Ubunye Bamahostela, said the constant changing of police officers in the area had made the biggest difference in reducing the violence at the hostel. This ensured the police would not become familiar to locals, which could lead to them becoming involved in crimes. The setting up of a new satellite police station near the hostel was also a positive development, he said. Zweni was apprehensive over next year’s general elections as they could be a source of conflict instigated by politicians. Vanessa Burger, a social activist who has been fighting violence at the hostel for a number of years, said although progress had been made, they could not afford to be complacent. “Since the arrest of Durban Central SAPS Detective Sergeant Bhekukwazi Louis Mdweshu and his seven co-accused last December, the number of incidents, especially assassinations at Glebelands - had decreased hugely,” she said. Like De Haas, Burger said police have made a huge difference in securing arrests and convictions, but more still needed to be done to improve the living conditions of hostel residents. EThekwini municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said the city was doing all it could to address the living conditions of hostel residents. He said the city was working hard to change hostels from labour reserves to family units. Daily News