Rescue Care operations director Garrith Jamieson said they rushed to the scene where one person was killed and three others injured after the vehicle they were travelling in overturned on the N2 north-bound before the M1 Higginson Highway off-ramp. “Rescue Care paramedics found the vehicle on its roof in the middle of the busy highway. It was found that the driver had sustained major injuries and there was nothing more paramedics could do for her and she was declared dead. Three occupants of the vehicle had sustained various injuries and were stabilised on the scene,” Jamieson said. According to reports, the occupants were on their way back from getting their hair done in preparation for the wedding that evening. According to a Facebook post by the Montclair Crime Eye, witnesses to the accident are being sought. The post claimed that another vehicle - a white Ford Fiesta or Focus - was involved in the accident and then left the scene. Details from the post suggest one of the dead woman’s daughters was to marry that day. “Too sad. It was the girl’s wedding day. They just had their hair done, going home Mother and daughter. Mum passed away at scene. Daughter in hospital,” said the post. Linda Elizah said: “I knew the lady so well. Such a humble soul heartbreaking.” Nadia Seedat said: “To the person who ran away. I pray you read this. Do the right thing and give yourself up. This is someone’s mother, wife and a girl who was just about to start her new life. I pray the guilt drives you to do the right thing.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said Montclair police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. “A 47-year-old woman sustained head injuries and died at the scene. Three other passengers sustained injuries and were taken to hospital for medical attention,” Gwala said. Other weekend crashes New Gelderland In the early hours of Sunday morning, one person was killed and nine were injured when two vehicles collided on the N2 near New Gelderland just past KwaDukuza. “IPSS Medical Rescue advanced life support paramedics found a man in a critical condition, initiating an advanced life support resuscitation. The man succumbed to his injuries on the scene,” said Paul Herbst, IPSS Medical Rescue spokesperson. The other occupants, including a baby, had serious to moderate injuries.  Tinley Manor One person died and five hurt after the driver of a vehicle crashed into a bridge on Sunday. “On arrival of IPSS Medical Rescue, six occupants were found alongside the vehicle. “One of the passengers sustained fatal injuries and was declared dead,” Herbst said.  Ballito A woman was killed on Saturday afternoon when a taxi crashed into a vehicle in Ballito. IPSS Medical Rescue and Lenmed eThekwini paramedics found a woman in a critical condition. She died at the scene, said Herbst. Four others were injured.  N3 Bergville Four people were killed and five were injured when the vehicle they were in overturned on the N3 near the Bergville toll plaza early on Saturday morning. “Shortly after 1am paramedics from ER24 and KwaZulu-Natal Emergency Services arrived on the scene where they found the occupants had been ejected from the vehicle. “Four people, including a young child, had already died,” said Werner Vermaak, ER24 spokesperson. He said it is believed the family were on their way from Johannesburg to the Eastern Cape.  Daily News