Various police search and rescue units, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) and Emergency Services have been called out to several parts of the province for drowning incidents. At the start of the month, police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane warned people to be extra cautious while swimming in the sea, dams, rivers or swimming pools. The warning came after a number of people had already drowned in the province. “Educational campaigns were held and awareness was made in the province of the need for safety at recreational facilities and at sea. “As the festive season is upon us, drowning is an ever-present risk when people go on outings to rivers, beaches, dams and swimming pools. “Many incidents of drowning are linked to the misuse of alcohol and recklessness,” said Zwane. Yesterday morning a 68-year-old man drowned in a pool in Lynnfield Park, outside Pietermaritzburg. Ineke van Huyssteen, ER24 spokesperson, said that when paramedics arrived at the scene just before 11am, they found that the man had already been removed from the pool. “Unfortunately, there was nothing paramedics could do for the man and he was declared dead at the scene,” said Van Huyssteen. On Wednesday, the NSRI was called out to a report of a drowning at Port Dunford in uMhlathuze. Spokesperson Craig Lambinon said that when they arrived on the scene, they had found one man out of the water and uninjured, while another man was missing. “An air, sea and shoreline search commenced for one man, aged 38, missing in the surf. During the search, the unconscious man washed ashore where police search and rescue medics performed CPR, but sadly after CPR efforts were exhausted the man was declared dead,” Lambinon said. Zwane said an inquest docket had been opened at Esikhaleni police station for investigation. In another incident, a 13-year-old boy drowned at Port Shepstone while swimming at a local beach on Wednesday. It is thought the teenager was swimming at an unprotected beach. “A missing person’s inquiry has been opened at Hibberdene police station for investigation. The search is ongoing,” Zwane said. Pietermaritzburg and Durban Search and Rescue team members were also searching for a 27-year-old man who drowned after he reportedly jumped from a boat to swim at the Albert Falls Dam on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the body of Sphesihle Nkwanyana, 14, was recovered at Black Rock Beach, along the Isimangaliso Wetland Park, yesterday afternoon. Sphesihle drowned on Sunday afternoon while swimming at Zinkwazi Beach. IPSS Medical Rescue spokesperson Paul Herbst said Sphesihle’s body had been found by KwaDukuza lifeguards on the beach a kilometre north of where he had been swimming. Daily News