The members of the Organised Crime Unit, Durban metro police drug task team, Hawks and Cele acted on a tip-off about the operation being conducted at 6 Aurora Drive, uMhlanga Rocks. The officers proceeded to the building on Saturday morning to observe what was happening before arresting a man. The officers were granted permission to search the building and uncovered a clandestine drug lab. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a 53-year-old man was approached and arrested. He said he was taken back to his premises and it was searched. Drug-manufacturing machinery, paraphernalia, packaging and about R100 000 in cash was seized. “The police officers found mandrax and heroin to the street value of R1.5m. “The premises are believed to be used for packaging and storage of drugs. The arrested suspect was charged for possession of and dealing in drugs. "He is expected to appear in court on Monday (today).” Residents expressed their appreciation for the good work done by the police. Louise Morton said: “Brilliant! Well done to all involved. Time to tighten the noose on drug dealers.” Pat Boddy Weideman said: “Well done! Good work, keep it up!” Janet Foulkes said: “Excellent job! Vanessa Jane Keyter said: “Well done to all involved! Yes, one less to worry about.” Mandy Rudman said: “Good news to end 2018. Now for all the others in 2019.” Angela Lourens said: “Thank you to the informer. You saved many lives.” Cele commended the teams for their hard work. “I am satisfied with the work of the police. "I am impressed by their dedication to root out corruption and crime at all levels to ensure that people have a safe festive season. "I call on all police officers to continue working hard,” he said. uMhlanga councillor Heinz de Boer said because of rapid urban expansion, the Gateway area had become the new city centre, saying the densification had come with the element of crime. “We are experiencing a high level of drugs and prostitution. We have had drug busts in normal residential areas. I have full confidence in the team that will be working on this case,” he said. This was not the only major bust of the season as Cele and the Border Policing Unit’s Trans International Crime Investigations division made a breakthrough at Durban Harbour where a container was found full of stripped car parts intended for export to Mauritius. Zwane said the container was fronted as second-hand parts for export but three of the engines and car panels for Audi and Ford Rangers were found to be linked to hijacked vehicles. He said it had a variety of car panels and engines of Mercedes, Audi, BMW, Ford and Hyundai vehicles currently licensed, insured and bank financed. Investigations to establish why the vehicles were stripped would commence. “The estimated value of these cars is R10m. It's still to be investigated why they were stripped and not reported stolen while under bank finance.” Daily News