Mohammed Ebrahim, who faces charges of murder and kidnapping, said yesterday through his lawyer, Chris Gounden, in his bail application in the Durban Regional Court, that he had stayed at Miguel’s home because he was in a relationship with the boy’s mother, Raylene Louw. Gounden disputed the State’s version that Ebrahim had wormed his way into the boy’s life through his mother and that Louw had asked him to stay over in a spare room for one night due to the lateness of the hour, and he ended up staying for days. Ebrahim kept interrupting Gounden, who was cross-examining investigating officer Rajen Govender, to give him more details. Gounden said Ebrahim would say that he arrived at Miguel’s home with Louw. But Govender denied this version, saying that Ebrahim had called Louw and asked to visit. Since Louw had been on a day off, she allowed him to come over. Miguel was last seen with Ebrahim at a KFC close to his home on July 17. His badly-decomposed body was found about two months after he vanished, in a bush about 100m from Ebrahim’s family home. Govender testified yesterday that a forensic pathologist who examined the remains had found that Miguel had likely been killed soon after his disappearance. “From the post-mortem the pathologist concluded that the approximate time of death pre-dated the discovery by more than four weeks,” he said. Opposing bail, Govender said their investigations had established that Ebrahim did not live permanently at his Phoenix home with his parents and sister. He said clothes assumed to be his were found in a black plastic packet inside a cabin on the parents’ property. There was a foam mattress in the room, which Ebrahim’s father also used for his tailor business. He said from what his parents said, Ebrahim spent two to three days at the most with them and would go away. Ebrahim was also not the breadwinner. Gounden said Ebrahim should not be discriminated against because of the conditions he lived under. The bail application continues. Daily News