Those who have worked with him in the six months in which he has acted as commissioner said they had already seen him making his mark in the province, while those who have not had an opportunity to work with him said they would give him a chance to prove himself. Police Minister Bheki Cele made the announcement at Gateway shopping centre after conducting walkabouts with senior police officials at that and other malls in the province. During the announcement, Mkhwanazi promised that he would focus on reducing the high number of murders, house robberies and hijackings in the province. Attempts to get him to comment further were unsuccessful. The Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) welcomed Mkhwanazi’s appointment as a move that would bring stability to the police. Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said the non-filling of vacant posts, including those of commissioners, was hindering progress in the Justice, Crime Prevention and Security Cluster. “We have always expressed concerns about the acting commissioners, and KZN had one of them. We welcome the appointment of a permanent commissioner at last. This will ensure there is a coalition between the national and the lower structures of the police department,” he said. Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said he was pleased to have a person of Mkhwanazi’s calibre. Kaunda said he believed the appointment of a full-time commissioner would stabilise the police service and improve policing in the province. “Apart from the sterling work he has done in the stabilisation team, which is making breakthroughs in high-profile cases in the province, Mkhwanazi has been instrumental in the successful hosting of the Provincial Security Indaba and Crime Summit this year.” Kaunda said Mkhwanazi would continue to assist in fast-tracking implementation of the summits’ resolutions. Chatsworth community leader Rock Naidu said Mkhwanazi came with a lot of experience. He said his approach to tackling crime was beginning to bear fruit at station level. “He was acting commissioner for six months, but his presence was felt even in the lower structures of the police and it has filtered through to the community,” Naidu said. Daily News