Durban - The beach will be one of the most visited places this festive season and some safety tips are desperately needed to avoid unwanted incidents and fatalities. During the festive season launch, eThekwini Municipality mayor, Zandile Gumede, said is projected that 1.1 million visitors will set foot on Durban shores. She said they recently added 12 new jet skis that will be used by lifeguards to respond to emergency situations and 122 temporary lifeguards who will help out. Moreover, they have hired 120 seasonal pool lifeguards and 50 pool guides. There will also be 105 childminders that will be stationed at various spots along the beachfront. Here are the 10 safety tips to bear in mind this summer from the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI):  1. Swim at beaches where and when lifeguards are on duty. Lifeguards are on duty at selected beaches between 10am and 6pm on weekends and during the week during summer school holidays. Listen to their advice and talk to them about safety on the beach that you are visiting. They are the experts on that beach. If lifeguards are not on duty do not swim. 2. Swim between the lifeguard flags. Teach children that if they swim between the lifeguards flags the lifeguards will be watching them and can help if there is a problem. Lifeguards watch swimmers very carefully between the flags – just wave an arm if you need help. 3. Don’t Drink and Drown. Alcohol and water do not mix. Never drink alcohol and then go to swim. 4. Don’t swim alone. Always swim with a buddy. If you are with a buddy while swimming there is someone who can call for help if you need it and you can’t wave to the lifeguards or call for help yourself. 5. Adult supervision and barriers to water are vital.  Adults who are supervising children in or near water must be able to swim. This is vital if it is at a water body that does not have lifeguards on duty. It is extremely dangerous to get into the water to rescue someone so rather throw something that floats to the person in difficulty and call for help (112 from a cell phone and check for the nearest Sea Rescue station telephone number before you visit a beach – put that number into your cell phone). Children should not be able to get through or over barriers such as pool fences to water. 6. Know how to survive rip currents. If you swim between the lifeguard flags they will make sure that you are safe and well away from rip currents. If for some reason this is not possible do not swim. Educate yourself about rip currents. 7. Don’t attempt a rescue yourself. Call a lifeguard or the NSRI by dialling 112 from your cell phone for help. If you see someone in difficulty call a lifeguard at once or dial the nearest Sea Rescue station from your cell phone. After calling for help try and throw something that floats to the person in difficulty. A ball, a foam board and so on. 8. Do not let children use floating objects, toys or tire tubes at the beach or in dams. You can very quickly get blown away from the shore and as much fun as tubes and Styrofoam are it is easy to fall off them. If a child can’t swim and falls off in deep water they will drown. 9. Do not be distracted by your cell phone or social media. While you are looking after children in or near water you need to focus on them and nothing else. 10. Visit a beach that has lifeguards on duty – there is a reason that we have repeated this!  Please remember that drowning is completely silent. Someone who is drowning will usually not shout for help. They will be vertical in the water (like they are trying to stand or climb stairs) and they will then silently slip under the water. Also, be aware of storing water without safety covers and make sure that they are behind barriers to small children. Especially children under 4 years of age. Even your swimming pool at home should have a cloak of safety around it to prevent accidents. Daily News