One has been identified as that of Zolani Mlambi, while the other is thought to be that of a colleague, Oscar Kono, but this is still to be confirmed. Mlambi’s brother Phakamani is still trying to deal with the trauma of having to identify the badly decomposed body of his brother. Before he received news of the discovery of the body, the Mlambi family still had hope that Zolani, of KwaNdengezi, would be found alive. “It is going to take a long time for the image of my brother in that state of decomposition to go out of my mind,” said Phakamani. He said his security guard brother went to work last week Sunday, but had not returned home a day later. “We went to his workplace and they told us he had left with two other men.” Phakamani said he opened a case of a missing person at the police station and then the waiting began. During this time he said there was still hope they would find his brother, who he described as “a people’s person” and someone who enjoyed a good joke. However, on Friday afternoon he got a call that two bodies had been found, and it was believed that one was his brother. “As I was travelling with police, I was praying that I would be able to deal with the sight of seeing my brother dead. When we got to the scene, they showed me the body of Zolani, who was already badly decomposed. It was extremely difficult seeing him like that,” Phakamani said. He said he had also seen the other security guard’s body, which was also badly decomposed. “I could see the other guy had some wounds on his chest and hands, but with my brother you could not see how he died as he was badly decomposed,” Phakamani said. He did not know the reason for his brother’s death, but suspected it was workplace politics as one of the men that had been with his brother was allegedly nowhere to be found. Phakamani said the family was having a difficult time accepting the death of his brother, who had four children. Their trauma was compounded because they were not able to conduct a funeral for him until the post-mortem had been done. The support of relatives and friends was getting them through. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said the bodies had been found in the veld in the Ematimatolo, Greytown area. “Post-mortems will be conducted to determine the cause of death. It is believed they are the same men who were reported missing at Mariannhill police station and at Tongaat police station. The vehicle used by the men was found abandoned at Dalton on December 24.” Zwane said the police had already opened two murder cases. Daily News