For Tashmeve Bhola of Izinga Ridge in uMhlanga, it was the best Christmas present she could have hoped for as she expected to go into labour only at the end of this month, but her bundle of joy came a little early at Life Westville Hospital. She was booked for a Caesarean section on December 31 and went into the labour ward in the early hours of Christmas Day. She gave birth at 8.46am. She said her family was excited about welcoming the baby boy on Christmas Day when everyone had gathered for the festivities. “We haven’t decided on the name yet. We are happy and thankful for our healthy and beautiful gift of a baby boy,” said Bhola. Her equally excited husband, Vikash Bhola, said on hearing the news, the rest of the family gathered at the hospital to embrace their new member. The couple said it was their second baby and they were wishing for a boy. Vikash, a doctor operating in Durban, said they were looking forward to starting the new year with such an “awesome” gift. “His 16-month-old sister has been to the hospital as well. She was amazed by how tiny he is.” Bhola said the baby weighed 2.68kg. Three babies in total were born at Westville Life Hospital on Christmas Day. At various public hospitals, 106 births were recorded, an increased birth toll from last Christmas Day. Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo, Home Affairs Minister Siyabonga Cwele and eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede visited mothers at the RKKhan and Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospitals in Durban yesterday. By 9am, 63 boys and 43 girls had been born at different hospitals. Dhlomo expressed concern that the youngest mother, 16, gave birth to a baby boy at Queen Nandi Memorial Hospital in Empangeni. “We’ve recorded three teenage mothers. One is 16, which means she was 15 when she fell pregnant. “That worries us because a significant number of maternal deaths come from teenagers and at that age they are not ready to become mothers,” said Dhlomo. He said another concern was that young girls feared visiting clinics and hospitals, and instead often hid their pregnancy until it was too late. “We want to encourage teenagers that if you have started engaging in sex, you use precautions to delay pregnancy by various means. Family planning is one of them,” said Dhlomo. Two other mothers were 17. One gave birth at Prince Mshiyeni hospital and the other at St Apollinaris Hospital in Harry Gwala District. At Eshowe Hospital, overjoyed mother Balungisa Nzuza welcomed twins, a boy and a girl. Cwele said the eThekwini Metropolitan Municipality worked closely with the Home Affairs Department to ensure that babies were registered before they left the hospital. “We are grateful for the partnership. We use days like these to remind South Africans that it is important for their children to be properly registered. The birth certificates will give you access to all services, whether it’s health or education,” said Cwele. Daily News