Zodwa Xaba, older sister of Hlengiwe Xaba, who died at the weekend, said her sister experienced contractions on Saturday and decided to go to the hospital. “When she went to hospital she was fine and talking as normal,” she said. Zodwa said the family had planned to visit Hlengiwe after she had delivered as some still had to buy groceries for Christmas and she was busy helping to prepare for a neighbour’s funeral. Later Zodwa received a call passing on a message from a nurse from St Mary’s Hospital, telling her that Hlengiwe had died. Zodwa dropped what she was doing and rushed to the hospital. “When we got there and asked the doctors what had killed my sister, they told us they did not know what had happened. When we went to see her body, it was cold and stiff and her lips were white, showing that she had been dead for a long time and not a few hours only. Her nose was also bloody." Zodwa said the family was told patients were checked on every two hours. “My mother and Hlengiwe’s husband have been having a hard time dealing with this. We told my sister’s 6-year-old son about her death, but he still does not understand that his mother is no longer around,” she said. Zodwa said while everyone around them was celebrating Christmas, they had grieved and made funeral preparations for her sister and her unborn child. The family planned to have the funeral this Saturday at their Kwa- Nyuswa home. Health Department spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda said a post mortem would be conducted to determine the cause of death. “The death of any person is a sad and painful experience. To this end, and without prejudice, the department would like to convey its deepest condolences to the family. Although the department is prohibited by law from sharing with a third party, including the media, confidential clinical details of the patient and how they were managed clinically within a health facility, the department has at its disposal a set of facts that are contrary to what is being alleged,” she said. Mafunda said hospital management had told the department that Xaba had been examined regularly while preparing to go into labour and was resuscitated by doctors and midwives when complications arose. When Xaba died, she was moved to an isolation room and her family were informed of her death, she said. Daily News