The most recent video shared on social media shows CCTV footage of a woman with three children at a shopping mall who hover near the food court area. The woman pretends to be on her cellphone while two of the children attempt to grab a woman’s handbag. After a few tries, a little girl is seen grabbing the handbag, which is on the floor, while the owner is completely unaware. The children and woman then quickly walk away. Dr Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies, said these videos were extremely worrying. “There can be no excuse for a mother to train her children to steal. No matter what the motivation may be, it is unforgivable. The child is being groomed for a life in crime. “Apart from the woman being criminally charged and punished, she is not suitable to raise these children. These children need to be removed from this kind of grooming,” he said. Sibusiso Khasa, Save the Children South Africa’s spokesperson, said this type of grooming could expose a child to behaviour that was psychologically, emotionally or physically harmful. “In a case like this, the parent is not only exploiting the child, but also neglecting his or her responsibility to properly supervise and protect the child from harm,” Khasa said. “If there is no intervention, it simply means the child’s childhood is stolen and their future is ruined. If people do not take action and make sure that parents like these are put behind bars, there is not much that those children can do,” he said. Adeshini Naicker, Childline’s operations manager in KZN, said the child was being exploited and any form of exploitation against children constituted abuse. “Guilt is often used to get children to participate in this kind of behaviour. A child of 6 or 7 is probably aware that it is wrong, but the early onset normalises the behaviour,” Naicker said. Zita Hansungule, the Centre for Child Law’s senior project co-ordinator, said that if charges were laid against a child, that child would be brought before a Child Justice Court, in accordance with the Child Justice Act 75 of 2008. The court may find that the child was in need of care and protection, and refer it to a Children’s Court. This would result in the child being referred away from the criminal justice system and into a care and protection system. “Both the Constitution and the Children’s Act 38 of 2005 provide that “the best interests of the child are of paramount importance in any matter concerning that child”, Hansungule said. Daily News