“Mr President, this can’t be an issue to bluff about. It is an emotive issue, and you only mention it if you mean it,” Malema said on Monday, in the debate on the State of the Nation. On Friday, Ramaphosa said the government would undertake a process of consultation to determine the modalities of the implementation of the expropriation of land without compensation. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Ramaphosa should resist the pressure in the ANC to undo the rights enshrined in the constitution, including property rights. “These same property rights underpin the entire economy, as you well know from your own successful business career,” he said. Maimane also said the injustice of land dispossession could be corrected in a way that respected the rule of law and protected the rights of land owners. “We can speed up land reform by rooting out corruption and inefficiency. And we must trust emerging black farmers with real land ownership, and not just as permanent tenants of the state. “Let those who work the land, own the land.” He warned that expropriation of land without compensation was incompatible with a growing, flourishing economy. “You can have one or the other, but never both. “That is why our neighbours in Zimbabwe, who started to pursue such disastrous and destructive policies in the past, are now reversing them and rebuilding their economies,” Maimane said. But this did not sit well with Malema, who warned the leader of the official opposition that the DA’s hold on three metros depended on their attitude to the expropriation of land without compensation issue. “I want to warn him about that. That’s the fundamental issue that is going to make us fight with you, because anybody who is opposed to expropriation of land without compensation is the enemy of our people, and such a person will be dealt with,” he said. Malema also said Ramaphosa’s announcement did not make headlines because “they know you are bluffing”. Malema said there should be no conditions to expropriating land without compensation. “When they took our land, they never attached conditions. They killed our people,” he said. But Cope’s leader Mosiuoa Lekota questioned if Ramaphosa’s announcement was in line with his allegiance to the constitution. Lekota said the constitution stated that expropriation should happen with compensation. “The question that must arise is whether you took an oath to this constitution or another constitution,” he pointed out. Lekota also questioned whose property was to be taken away and given to whom. “Are you to amend the Bill of Rights so that South Africans must know this constitution is no longer relevant?” he asked. Land Reform Deputy Minister Mcebisi Skwatsha said the ANC resolution on land expropriation without compensation would be implemented. “In March, we are convening a workshop and in that worship we will not be watering down the resolution, but discussing the modalities of implementing this resolution,” Skwatsha said. He added that the government knew how people suffered because of the land question. “We believe in the principle of the rule of law. This will be co-ordinated, not with anarchy,” Skwatsha said. His comments prompted Malema to ask Ramaphosa if he was taking notes from the “potential minister”. Daily News