Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has come under fire following a report that revealed that the city's housing department failed to meet its target to build houses by 77%. According to a report presented to the provincial Human Settlements portfolio committee, the eThekwini Metro Housing Department only managed to build 1 197 houses out of the 5 299 target it set  for the 2017/18 financial year - missing the target by 4 102 houses. The report lists a number of housing developments or programmes the department are set to cover and include, Implementation of National Housing Programmes, Informal Settlements Upgrade Programme, Integrated Residential Programme, Enhanced Peoples Housing Process, Finance Linked Individual Subsidy Programme, Community Residential Units, Emergency Housing Programme, Rural Housing (Inclusive of Farm Worker Programme) and All Subsidy instruments. The report showed the Metro was only able to complete 23% of their set target. George Mari, DA KZN spokesperson on Human Settlements said the DA was concerned by the Metro’s poor performance since KZN has the highest housing need, with 590 informal settlements. “That the Department was building 10 000 houses per annum just ten years ago is an indictment against the current ANC administration,” said Mari. In addition, the report also showed that: • Not one of the new sites have been connected to basic services such as water, sanitation and electricity despite a target of 208 in 2017/18; • The Metro has only completed 414 out of a target of 2 603 houses under the informal settlements upgrade programme, leaving a shortfall of 2189; • Just two out of a target of 163 units under the enhanced peoples’ housing process have been completed; • The Metro has not constructed any of the 50 units in terms of its community residential units target set at the beginning of the 2017/18 financial year and; • Under the emergency housing programme (inclusive of Sukuma Sakhe) the Metro has only completed 105 houses against a target of 305. He said during the meeting, the department blamed the Metro for under-delivering. “This blame game is typical of the ANC yet the figures tell us that the ANC-led Human Settlements Department and the Metro housing department have neglected their mandate to deliver basic services to people. They also tell us the ANC-deployed Mayor is not doing her job properly and raise serious questions around whether the ANC cares about people having a roof over their heads or not,” he continued. He also said the DA has called on Ravi Pillay, Human Settlements MEC to make sure that there is accountability for the under-performance. The Daily News has sent questions to the eThekwini Municipality. Daily News