Durban - The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) in KwaZulu-Natal had their hands full this weekend, assisting capsized boats and missing sunbathers. Craig Lambinon, NSRI spokesperson said Shelly Beach station, Durban station and Richards Bay station responded to various sea incidents along the coast of KZN. Lambinon said on Sunday, NSRI Shelly Beach were called by a local security company and by the Police Search and Rescue at Margate Beach and reported that a man believed to be in his 30s had entered the surf. “NSRI Shelly Beach and Police searched the area finding no sign of the man fitting the description given by eyewitnesses,” said Lambinon. “Later Police confirmed that the man was found walking on a road towards Port Shepstone and he was taken into the care of paramedics and Police and taken to a hospital for care.” Earlier, on Saturday, NSRI was alerted by the Transnet National Ports Authority that a ski-boat had capsized next to the Sugar Terminal in the path of a ship leaving Port in Durban, said Lambinon. “While responding to that incident we came across a Hobie-Cat capsized in the path of a sailing vessel. We assisted the Hobie-Cat and moved her out of the way of the sailing vessel and the Royal Natal Yacht Club sent a race support tender craft to take over assisting the Hobie-Cat and her crew,” said Clifford Ireland, NSRI Durban station commander. “On arrival at the capsized ski-boat it was found that it was a capsized rubber-duck and the NSRI Richards Bay sea rescue craft Spirit of Richards Bay towed the rubber-duck to the Point Yacht Club without incident effectively doing a rescue operation 85 nautical miles from her home base,” Ireland said. He also said once the rubber-duck was secured and recovered, no further assistance was required. Lambinon also said NSRI Richards Bay responded to reports of children trapped by rising water from flooding in the Umfolozi River. On arrival on the scene, NSRI rescue swimmers, Police K-9 Search and Rescue and Police divers, who had also responded, following a search two children who had been trapped by rising flood waters were found safe and they were recovered and they were not injured. Fortunately, no injuries were reported in all incidents. Daily News