Petzer, an executive producer of the East Coast Drive with Bongani and Mags, had posted on Saturday: “And now b****** are cheering because seven suspects were shot dead and 10 were injured in a shoot-out in Ngcobo between SAPS and men believed to be behind cop killings.” He reacted to people clapping on social media and “giving each other high fives”. Petzer questioned the guilt of these men because there was no trial. “One day you’ll be walking past a car and believed to hijacking it and then shot dead and then social media will celebrate your death,” he posted. His post received criticism from angry East Coast Radio listeners. Some contacted the station management to express their disgust, while others threatened to boycott the station, the Drive Show or his comedy shows. Petzer’s post has since been deleted and he apologised for “the offence caused”, but many are still upset. Rude Some of the comments to his post were: Chanique Peyper said: “Well for the sake of my familia and amigos being cops! And also Ecr that are always making rude comments live I am up to boycotting him.” Tamarin Micholson said: “My sister is a policewoman and my father-in-law an ex policeman. I will not support or condone these type of comments from ignorant people who don’t know the facts. It’s fine for these scumbags to open fire on policemen but not ok for them to return fire???? Sorry not on at all. These are OUR family members who put their lives on the line everyday. They are also someone’s sister, father, brother and uncle.” Some fans supported Petzer. Deon Purdilwa said: “It’s his opinion Freedom of speech. ppl want him to lose his job because he has an opinion relax.” Linda Hide said: “I agree! we all have the right to our own opinions and we all live in fear we speak in fear and anger to. some of us even willing to take the law into our own hands, but the fact is we cannot live in a country or world were the rule is an eye for an eye! We have all become so hardened by what we hear and see on social media that nobody knows truth from lies we all just follow like sheep.” Reacting to the listeners’ criticism, Zain Derbyshire, East Coast Radio’s programming manager,  said the station had noted Petzer’s comments and had already received calls from listeners. He said an internal investigation would take place, beginning with a meeting with Petzer on Monday. “We are going to sit down with him this morning and discuss the content of his Facebook comment. We have noted the fans reaction to his comment and the telephonic complaints that we received about this matter. “We are going to follow the right procedures in investigating this matter and would inform our listeners of its outcome,” said Derbyshire. Soldier In last week’s incident, the gunmen killed three officers and a retired soldier at Ngcobo police station. They fled with 10 firearms in a police van which they hijacked from two officers, whom they kidnapped and killed. On Friday, the suspects were shot by police at the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries Church in Nyanga Village which they apparently used as their hideout. Nearly 100 children housed at the church, who allegedly lived there without being able to attend school, were rescued by the police and were taken away by social workers. Daily News