Durban - Close to R2 million worth of frozen meat, stolen during a cold storage container truck heist was recovered in a Mount Edgecombe warehouse. The meat, according to Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), was stolen outside the Durban harbour at around 2am on Wednesday. Vinod Singh, Rusa operations manager said they were alerted to the theft by the owner about the theft of a truck and trailer containing the cargo. “It took us a long time to recover the container because it was hidden inside the warehouse. The meat is worth R1.8 million. Fortunately it was still in good condition because it was in a refrigerated container, so the businessman was lucky. It was a different story compared to the recent recovery of a processed chicken cargo where it was found spoilt. The hijackers had opened the back door and we believe they discovered that it was a wrong container that they had and left the door opened, and the owner lost everything,” Singh said this morning. He said the truck was recovered in Springfield Park a few hours after the alert from the owner. Information gathered suggested that the trailer was within an industrial area in Mt. Edgecombe. “Reaction Officers along with the businessman searched the area and recovered the trailer inside a locked warehouse. An employee of the business was called out to the premises and upon arrival explained that the trailer was parked in the warehouse by one of their customers who he could not provide any details for. Upon inspection of the trailer it was found that it still contained the 30 tons of pork. A fake number plate was stuck over the original number plate. Grease was used to cover the companies insignia that was printed on the trailer. The employee was taken in for questioning by the SAPS,” he said. He said in recent weeks Rusa has been contacted by several transport companies reporting their trucks and trailers being stolen or hijacked. In most cases the vehicles were recovered minus their load. “We believe that there is a syndicate operating and was targeting specific loads. In one incident the hijackers had told a truck driver about his load so that’s evidence that they (hijackers) know about their target even before the theft,” he said. In November, the company recovered a stolen trailer loaded with a shipping container carrying 24 tons of chicken in Verulam. Daily News 