The name that is linked to the cricket ground is the trademark of the sponsor, which was one of the largest independent technology distributors in southern Africa. It is one of the key businesses in the Gupta brothers’ portfolio and the company is now said to have quietly closed down. Its premises in Midrand, Joburg, are up for sale for R50 million - or to let for R390 000 a month. With the company closed, fans want to know if the name will come down at the stadium. “Yes, there is a lot of uncertainty and a lot of people are asking me that,” said the president of the KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union, Fa-eez Jaffer, on Thursday. Jaffer had just had a meeting with a Sahara spokesperson. “It’s a bit of a legal bind at the moment. We have got lawyers looking into it and we will have to see what their advice is.” Sahara was a sponsor for 13 years and the stadium had “scored more than they had”. Sahara’s sponsorship was for five-year periods. The present contract ends next year. “They always pay upfront and the contract has another 18 months to run,” Jaffer said. “We had a good relationship with them. They are cricket lovers, especially Ajay Gupta.” Asked what the sponsorship was worth, he said there was a confidentiality clause in the contract. According to an internet posting, the leadership of Sahara Computers was Atul Gupta, Ajay Gupta and Rajesh Gupta, with Duduzane Zuma, former president Jacob Zuma’s son, the director. The Hawks are currently on the hunt for the Gupta brothers, who have apparently fled to Dubai. The Gupta family and their allies had launched a high-court fightback against the NPA’s Asset Forfeiture Unit, opposing the freezing of their multimillion-rand assets over corruption allegations. Last month, the Bloemfontein High Court granted a preservation order to the NPA which saw the seizure of Gupta-linked assets and bank accounts linked to the alleged illegal siphoning of R220m  from the Agriculture Department in 2013 through the Vrede dairy farm project. The eldest Gupta brother, Ajay, has been declared a fugitive as he remains on the run from an arrest warrant which has been issued against him over similar corruption allegations. Daily News