They were arrested in a police sting operation in December. Ahmed Katabazi, 48, a Ugandan citizen, and his wife, Buyisiwe Vivian Sosibo, 40, whom he married in Durban in February 2010, were represented in court by Logan Padayachee. The couple were found guilty of managing an illegal abortion facility/ termination of pregnancy (TOP) business in West Walk Arcade under various names: Dr Adam, Dr Solomon and Dr Ndawo. The court found that they were not legally authorised or registered to conduct TOP/abortions at their clinic. The court further found that both had benefited financially from conducting unlawful terminations at their clinic. Katabazi and Sosibo were charged with five counts of contravening sections of the Choice on Termination of Pregnancy Act. In December, the couple unlawfully and intentionally dispensed medication to a customer, whose name has been withheld by the newspaper to respect her privacy (count 1). Perform On the same day, they also attempted to perform a TOP on an undercover policewoman by dispensing medication which induces a TOP (count 2). They also terminated a pregnancy or allowed the TOP at a facility that was not approved for such 
medical procedures (count 3). The couple were not registered medical practitioners or registered as health professionals to practise within South Africa in terms of the Health Professions Act (count 4). They were also charged under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act for 
acquisition, possession or use of proceeds of unlawful activities. They were found in possession of the R2 000 handed to them by police to conduct the TOP (count 5). Padayachee read out their guilty plea in which the couple admitted operating an illegal abortion clinic and giving their customers tablets to take orally and by self-insertion into the vagina. Prosecutor Ronitha Singh told the court that Katabazi had a previous conviction for 
contravening the Road Traffic Act. Magistrate P Singh adjourned the matter to March 2 for sentencing. Daily News