The Durban Chamber of Commerce and Industry (DCCI) chief executive, Dumile Cele, said on Monday that the remarks by Ramaphosa about fighting corruption, fraud and collusion affirmed their vision statement,  which was: “in Business for a Better World”. “Very clear intentions have been communicated by the president to deal with corruption both in private and public sectors and this is encouraging, as is bringing governance in SOE leadership structures,” said Cele. “The Durban Chamber applauds the president on the initiatives planned to reform the governance of state-owned entities. These institutions represent critical state infrastructure and cannot be left to operate in disarray and fall into mismanagement under our watch Healthy state-owned enterprises will reduce pressure on the fiscus.” The chamber said it acknowledged Ramaphosa’s commitment to promote investment in manufacturing because the sector was key in Durban as it offered the most job creation opportunities. It said it would hold the president to deliver on his undertaking to set aside at least 30% of public procurement to SMMEs, co-operatives and township and rural development enterprises, in addition to reducing regulatory barriers. Minara Chamber of Commerce president Ebrahim Patel said they applauded the practical steps to ensure policy certainty, reduce government departments grow the local economy attract investment  boost the manufacturing sector and grow the small business sector. “The establishment of a Youth Employment Service, a Youth Working Group and the Jobs Summit to address the high unemployment among youth is supported. The announcement that qualifying first-year tertiary students will be provided with access to free education will help address skills shortage and allow marginalised families an opportunity to better their lives,” he said. “As a chamber focused on SMEs and entrepreneurs we 
are pleased that President Ramaphosa has acknowledged the role that small business 
and start-ups play in our economy.” Daily News