Supporters, still hurt over Zuma’s unceremonious departure from the presidency last week, said they were proud that he had placed Nkandla and the province on the world map. While the ANC provincial task team co-ordinator, Sihle Zikalala, had said the provincial leadership would organise the event, local ANC leaders said they had already planned a separate event with community leaders of Nxamalala village. “As soon as he arrives we will throw him a welcoming celebration,” said a former ANC ward councillor in Zuma’s branch, Sbongiseni Bhengu. Zikalala said ANC structures were “looking forward to welcoming President Zuma”. “As the province of KwaZulu-Natal we will be hosting welcome-back celebrations for president Zuma to thank him for his 60years of revolutionary service to the people. “We call upon all sectors of society to join us as we thank this son of the soil. As the ANC we will be richer with his wisdom and experience and shall always continue to seek his guidance,” Zikalala said. Bhengu said the local ANC structure and the community were waiting to hear when Zuma would return home. “We will gather on the day of his arrival and throw him a party. We want to thank him,” said Bhengu. However, leaders in Zuma’s home region of Musa Dladla were awaiting an official mandate to organise a party. Regional secretary Tholi Gwala said the ANC in Zuma’s branch should also wait for the mandate before proceeding with its plans. During a press briefing yesterday, the regional leadership commended Zuma for outstandingly representing his home region. “President Zuma served the country with distinction and as the home region of President Zuma, we wish to thank him for the continued support his foundation gave to the people of Nkandla during the festive season. We are hopeful that he will continue serving our poor people until his last breath,” the leadership said in a statement. The Jacob G Zuma Foundation has been popular for paying university fees for rural young people, and hosting annual chess and soccer games in Nkandla and Eshowe. ANC Youth League provincial chairman Kwazi Mshengu said the league would visit Nkandla to ask Zuma to avail himself to be part of ANC campaigns in the province for next year’s general elections. “We are going to engage the new leadership of the ANC to say ‘Definitely, we want president Zuma in our campaign’,” Mshengu said. Daily News