While some have claimed that a deal has been struck for Zuma to resign, there is no official confirmation. Others claim while there is talk of Zuma stepping down, no firm decision has been made. In recent hours there have been several developments, including:   What is clear is that Zuma’s hand has become considerably weakened. Only recently, he commanded majority support within the NEC and ANC caucus in Parliament. However, the balance of power shifted after Ramaphosa won the ANC presidency last year. Sources said key Zuma supporters have now thrown in their lot with Ramaphosa,  including Kebby Maphatsoe, president of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA). He refused to be part of a bid to hand in a letter denouncing Ramaphosa. “We have been betrayed by people such as our president Kebby Maphatsoe and Lindiwe Zulu. We trusted them and they are turning against us and our president,” said a source within the MKMVA. Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni said the developments indicated that Zuma would go soon. “The discussions (between Zuma and Ramaphosa) mean Zuma is beginning to buckle under pressure. We must not underestimate the fact that we are dealing with a person who doesn’t think much of society but of himself and his survival; he has specialised in that.” Transition Fikeni said the ANC had tried its best to handle the transition in a manner that was indicative of a party with solid leadership, divided as they were on Zuma’s exit. “The ANC for years has allowed Zuma to rise and become bigger than the party itself; their key performance area was to defend Zuma rather than to question him. Removing him could not have been easy,” he said. Fikeni added it was unlikely that Zuma would deliver the State of the Nation Address. ANC veteran Thami Ntenteni told eNCA this morning that the nation had been patient for two years since the Nkandla judgment was delivered. “There are 783 charges hanging over the president and this is giving the impression of a party that is in a state of paralysis, one that is unable to act against its own deployee. “There is a seeming inability or unwillingness to take certain actions. If you speak of no intention to humiliate anybody, there is no one who can do more to humiliate the president than what he has done over time.” Ntenteni said the ANC stalwarts felt the party had to deal with the root causes of the problems. “We presented a document ‘For the sake of our future’, which called on the leadership of the ANC to call a national consultative conference, but the leadership was reluctant to go that route. “Whatever is happening behind the scenes, to observers the image of the ANC has been seriously dented and it doesn’t seem like there is a serious attempt to rescue this image.” Asked about the two leaders’ meeting on Tuesday, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule told eNCA that “President Zuma had asked for the NEC to be postponed”. He said there had been constructive discussions between Zuma and Ramaphosa. Both had also discussed the SONA and had agreed it should be postponed to give them an opportunity to engage further. However, sources within the ANC said Zuma had negotiated his resignation package during the meeting with Ramaphosa, “which he will definitely need to deal with his legal woes”. Daily News