Engineers were deployed to most of these schools earlier this year to assess the damages and promised that “help was on the way”. uMlazi Comtech High School and Swelihle High School were some of the hardest hit in the uMlazi area and had lost several classrooms. Collingwood Primary School in Wentworth was given 25 temporary classroom structures at the beginning of this year. Following up on complaints from parents that these prefabricated classrooms were extremely hot and a health risk, the Daily News visited the school on Wednesday. The temperature inside the classrooms was 33°C while it was 27°C outside. Each mobile classroom accommodates 40 pupils, their desks and chairs and a medium-sized cupboard. Without storage space, books are kept on the floor. The classrooms were erected close to each other resulting in little fresh air coming in through the windows. There is no electricity, so fans or portable air conditioners cannot be used to cool these classrooms. Pupils were allowed to remove their ties and told to bring water bottles to stay hydrated. They used exercise books to fan themselves and teachers complained that this disrupted their lessons. Lorretta Hughes, the school’s governing body chairperson, said they feared for the pupils’ safety inside these hot classrooms. The governing body was seeking donations to install electricity in all 25 classrooms. She said they were not told when the damages to the school would be repaired or how long they would have to use the temporary mobile classrooms. Outside each mobile classroom is a set of stairs placed over bricks and not firmly attached to the classroom, which poses a danger to pupils who could trip and hurt themselves. Play Grade R pupils had lost their playing area since the classrooms were erected in that space. During breaks, they crammed under a narrow veranda that does not offer much shelter from the sun. Hughes said they were praying for a quick-fix so classes could return to normal. She said the Grade 6 pupils were being taught at a church opposite the school. “Our Grade 6 pupils now feel alienated from the school. A group of more than 160 pupils is being taught at the same time, in one big hall, which is frustrating. Teachers have to cross the road if they want to use the fax machine, the telephone and the computer on school premises,” said Hughes. At Swelihle High School, the music classroom, the kitchen, where cooking classes were held, and the administration building were damaged. The music and cooking classes have been suspended. The school was now waiting for the company appointed to repair the classrooms to start work. Kwazi Mthethwa, the Department of Education spokesperson, said the mobile classes were a temporary structure to assist in ensuring that classes continued while plans to repair the storm damages were implemented. “It is hard to say at this stage how long these classrooms would be there for. However there are proper channels which the School Governing Body and the parents can use to complain about the conditions of the mobile classrooms if they feel the condition of the classroom is not conducive to learning,” he said. Mthethwa said the department would contact the relevant schools to determine how it would deal with the issues. Daily News