Durban - The protracted strike over a salary increase at the Durban University of Technology could be resolved before the end of this week. The unions were, however, not giving in to the university’s offer on Wednesday of a 6.5 percent increase in the basic salary and housing allowance. The union’s initial demand was a 10 percent increase on basic salary, R400 increase on the monthly housing allowance and a R9 000 once-off bonus (14th cheque). No agreement was reached following the resumption of salary negotiations on Wednesday between the three unions, lead by the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union. Alan Khan, DUT's corporate affairs senior director, said the institution’s management highlighted to unions the context of an earlier representation made, in terms of sustainability issues of the university and that the unions were not making substantial movements. “The insistence by the unions that DUT agrees to a once-off bonus payment or a 14th cheque was hampering the negotiation. Management did not have a mandate from the DUT council to offer a once-off bonus or 14th cheques as part of the salary negotiation,” Khan said in a statement. During Wednesday’s talks, the unions and university management made offers without prejudice, with the union moving to an eight percent increase in basic salary and a R350 housing allowance without a once-off bonus;  while the university offered a 6.5 percent increase in basic salary and 6.5 percent in housing allowance without a once-off bonus. Khan said the union was prepared to move beyond their position. “The second option that needs to be explored is the intervention of a mediator. Currently, the unions have rejected the university’s request for the CCMA or another independent mediator to assist. DUT management would like to assure its stakeholders that they will continue to work towards ensuring that the functions and work of the university continues and that the safety and protection of students, staff and university property remain a priority. While the protesters have tried to disrupt student registration, the university remains open and students are registering online," said Khan. He said a decision was taken to delay the start of the 2018 academic year by a week. Lectures will now commence on Monday, February 12. Milton Estrice, the spokesperson for the negotiating team, said they were still on strike. “We are looking at the mediation alternative now just to show good faith because we are concerned about the learning programme. If that effort doesn’t produce the desired outcome then we will continue with the strike,” Estrice said. Daily News