Last month, Sapo group chief executive Mark Barnes sent a letter to Mpumi Mpofu, the director-general at the Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, asking her to intervene. Barnes had accused Sassa of delaying the design of the Sassa card and the specifications of the corporate holding and special disbursement accounts. “Failure to meet the deadlines will have an adverse reputational impact not only on Sapo, but on Sassa and the government at large,” Barnes said in his letter. This attracted an angry response from Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini, who last week said Sapo could not deliver on the simplest of its obligations - that is to open a corporate account - and questioned its capacity to deliver on the major project. On Tuesday, Sapo executives told MPs that the letter by Barnes was aimed at raising issues of risk management. “We always have meetings every Friday and we were promised everything would be done by January 15,” group chief operations officer Lindiwe Kwele said. Kwele said Sapo’s reputation was at stake and in order to protect it, they had to seek intervention from Mpofu, who leads a technical team of the cabinet’s inter-ministerial committee on comprehensive social grants. “If you are supposed to sign within three days and take instead three weeks, that impacts on the deliverables.” She said the question of the bank account was because the required documents from Sassa that are compliant with Fica regulations were still awaited. “They can’t give them until the accountant general at the National Treasury gives them authority,” Kwele said. Kwele’s sentiments were echoed by Hannes van der Merwe, Sapo project manager for the social grant contract. “The issue of the letter was more raising early warning to say please be aware we were waiting for the documents to open the corporate account,” Van der Merwe insisted. “We want to make it clear that Post Bank is capable of opening an account.” He said Sassa has since signed off the specifications for the cards. The Sapo executives also told the MPs that because the Sassa-Sapo contract was signed in December, way after September as they had proposed, the state-owned enterprise would not deliver on some aspects of the payments of grants. This included the cash payments because that service required fleets for cash transit, human resources and cash-dispensing machines. “That on its own requires six months,” Kwele said. “We felt this was delayed for five months and it would be irresponsible to bite more than we can chew. Whoever created the crisis must manage it without us being involved.” The invalid contract of grants distributor Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) expires next month. Sassa has applied to the court asking the contract to be extended from April until September to allow CPS to hand over to Sapo. Daily News