The Department of Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs’s MEC, Sihle Zikalala, was optimistic that the province would finally achieve what has, so far, been an elusive objective. “We had a very productive meeting with British Airways. They see huge potential in the Durban-London route and we are extremely optimistic. For a number of years, KZN has been working on securing air services between Durban and the UK, and we are happy that BA has finally given us the opportunity to engage them on the viability and potential of the route,” said Zikalala. The MEC met a high-powered BA delegation led by director of network planning and alliances Sean Doyle on Tuesday to
motivate for direct air services. Speaking during the meeting, BA said it was busy evaluating its routes throughout the world, adding that Durban was the one with huge potential. Following this, BA would engage internal evaluation and due diligence processes, including briefing the board. BA previously ran the route between the two cities more than 15 years ago. Zikalala said a provincial delegation went to the UK last year and engaged a number of sectors, including the airline, with a view to re-activating the route. “This has potential to grow tourism. In trade, for business and freight, we believe we have a lot of benefits, and this engagement is going to contribute positively to the economic growth of the province. From an economic standpoint, this route also augurs well for improved trade relations, as the UK is currently South Africa’s second largest export trade partner in Europe,” he said. South African exports to the UK make up 4.5% of the country’s total exports. Approximately 10000 passengers currently fly indirectly between Durban and London via Johannesburg or other hubs, such as Dubai. Zikalala said the proposed new route would drastically reduce travel times and costs. Highlighting the selling points, Zikalala added that international cargo through Dube Cargo Terminal had experienced continuous year-on-year growth of 138% since 2010. “The introduction of passenger flights to Durban saw a growth of 25% in cargo volumes, as well as an increased frequency of chartered aircraft. In the 2017/18 financial year we expect a 12% growth in cargo.” A decision from BA is expected soon. Daily News