In last week’s municipality agenda, the executive committee recommended that agriculture functions and resources be transferred from the Parks, Recreation and Culture unit into the unit that is being formed. KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DARD) spokesperson Khayelihle Nkwanyana said the action proved that the city was taking agriculture ­seriously. “This is, in many ways, a product of engagements between MEC Themba Mthembu and mayor Zandile Gumede to dispel notions that Durban is completely urban when, in fact, there are areas that are rural,” said Nkwanyana. “Those areas include areas beyond Inanda, Verulam and others towards the South Coast. Those areas are strongly agricultural. The areas are peri-rural, with vast amounts of land for which the only survival and economic activity that can be put there is agriculture.” Nkwanyana said the impact would be invaluable as the municipality knew the pressure points in the peri-urban areas of the city, where they could make a quick impact. “We want to build emerging farmers. Since the land available within the city does not belong to the Ingonyama Trust, with the municipality involved, people can be given that land to plant and farm. The decision to give away this land to small-holder farmers rests with the City, eliminating the process of the department having to apply for the land to the City. They could be supported with fencing, tractors and DARD could provide expert advice, since we have experience,” he said. Nkwanyana said the provincial agriculture budgets could be pooled together, with the City focusing closely on the City, while DARD focused on the broader province. DA eThekwini councillor Nicole Graham said that the provincial government already had agriculture programmes and a budget. “If the provincial government wants to roll out an agriculture programme, then it must give the city the budget for it. The city needs to be more careful on how it spends the money, and to spend almost R40m on agriculture, which is not our funded mandate, just seems reckless,” said Graham. She said they did not mind when the city had small-scale agriculture programmes initially based in the previous unit. But Graham argued that creating a stand-alone unit with its own staff would cost more. University of KwaZulu-Natal’s expert specialising in agriculture and local economic development, Professor Maryann Green, said: “Communities need training in both businesses and agriculture processes. While it is difficult to gauge agriculture in communities, it remained a lifeline to them. Agriculture is a potential job generator in rural areas.” Daily News