Minki Rasenyalo, Doves chief executive, said they had been engaged in talks with Nafupa SA for some time after the calls by the union for white and Indian undertakers not to operate in black communities. “We have agreed on pillars to assist small funeral parlours. These pillars will ensure that the small guys get the right skills for the business. The transfer of skills will go a long way in ensuring that newly established parlours don’t suffer. We even agreed on a model that the smaller undertakers would share a storage facility until they are on their feet. When they start, they find it difficult because they lack sufficient resources to finance storage facilities,” Rasenyalo said. Only Nafupa SA members will benefit from these developments. Recently, the union called for only black funeral undertakers to operate in black communities. They argued that Indian and white communities did not source services from black-owned funeral parlours so it did not make sense to have them taking business from black operators. Rasenyalo said that also applied to Doves because of a lack of information about the company. “They were of the view that we are white-owned, and only realised later that we are actually black-owned. We, as Doves, are just partners in this development and we have no take on Nafupa SA’s call,” she said. Muzi Hlengwa, Nafupa SA president, said weeks of negotiations with Doves had culminated in a meaningful working relationship. “We regard Doves as a big brother willing to reach out to smaller players in the industry. This gesture re-inforces the notion of Doves’ willingness to co-exist with other players in the industry and not behave like a monopoly that seeks to devour competitors. Mutual benefits “These negotiations were based on pillars that form the founding agreement of our ongoing relationship. As we begin and proceed on this journey, we may, from time to time, improve and or add on the current relationship,” Hlengwa said. The agreements were that Doves would assist Nafupa SA to secure its own licence. It will also assist with infrastructure development and there will also be a two-way beneficiation for maximum use of Nafupa SA’s infrastructure and that of Doves. It was also agreed that Doves’ training academy would train Nafupa SA members. “We maintain that as part of equity in the sector, black areas be reserved for black-owned funeral business. I can safely say that this weekend we saw exactly that. We further congratulate our white and Indian colleagues who voluntarily heeded our call,” Hlengwa said. Last week, after a meeting with local government and various stakeholders, including Nafupa SA, it was agreed that a steering committee be formed to address issues of transformation in the burial space that had been raised by Nafupa SA. Sihle Zikalala, MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, confirmed that all the concerns were addressed. Daily News