Durban - The Durban community has applauded the South African Police Services following two separate shootouts between police and armed men on Monday. Members of the DURBAN CRIME N ALL Facebook group, gave the police a big thumbs up after news of the shootouts broke. Here is what some of them said: Rajen Moodley: "The KZN SAPS are on a roll... Well done to all.. Getting rid of these criminals permanently is the only way out." Colleen Allan: "Well done.. save on taxpayers money." David Stuthard: "Excellent great job SAPS." Ann D'Ewes- Heuer: "Wonderful work. Well done." Major General Bheki Langa, the KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, was relieved that no police officers perished when armed men shot at them and resisted arrest. “Every day our police officers face gunfire when they attempt to carry out their duties by arresting criminals. Police officers are always reminded to be operationally ready at all times. We will not be intimidated by armed thugs and we will continue to serve and protect the citizens of this province,” Langa said. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said various operation units conducted an intelligence driven operation at Bulwer following up on information on a planned robbery in the area. Police spotted three suspicious looking vehicles were spotted in the area and started monitoring their activities. Two of the vehicles left the area and moved towards Boston and Bulwer while the third vehicle headed onto the N3 towards Durban. “Police officers attempted to pull over the first two vehicles at Mpophomeni and they came under heavy gunfire. During an exchange of gunfire, six suspects were fatally wounded. The seventh suspect was injured and taken to hospital under police guard. High calibre rifles and handguns were recovered from both vehicles. It was discovered that one of the recovered vehicles was hijacked in the Durban Central area,” said Zwane. “Police also attempted to pull over the third vehicle which was travelling on the N3 freeway near Mariannhill. The occupants of the vehicle also opened fire on police officers. During the exchange of gunfire three suspects were fatally wounded. A fourth suspect was injured and taken to hospital for treatment under police guard. Rifles and handguns were also seized from the vehicle,” Zwane continued. He said all recovered firearms will undergo ballistic tests to establish whether they were used in other crimes in the country. He said cases of attempted murder and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition were opened for further investigation. Inquest dockets were also opened regarding the death of the suspects. Daily News