Gwala said he expected ­Mchunu to spend this year delivering on his promises instead of being preoccupied by his party’s internal battles. Mchunu will on Tuesday deliver the State of the Province address in Pietermaritzburg. On Tuesday, King Goodwill Zwelithini is to open the provincial legislature. “Prior to the ANC national conference, there were too many ructions, thus many parliamentary meetings were actually postponed. There were also so many cases at Pietermaritzburg (High Court),” he said. Gwala said the provincial government had compromised fighting poverty and unemployment. “We hope that the premier will make a difference, particularly because poverty and unemployment are high in the province, and the drought is out of control,” said Gwala. ANC MPL Nontembeko Boyce said Mchunu had delivered on a number of promises. She said chief among them was the Moerane Commission of Inquiry investigating political killings in the province, which is currently sitting. “Among Mchunu’s landmark achievements was announcing  plans of aligning government agencies in the province, and he is merging the Dube Trade Port in Durban with the one in Richards Bay to ensure economic growth in the province,” she said. Boyce said there was visible improvement in health as the province had shown determination in addressing oncology problems. She said even absenteeism in schools had been reduced. DA MPL Sizwe Mchunu said Mchunu had last year made “very few” minimum service delivery pronouncements. Sizwe Mchunu said despite the formation of the Moerane Commission “political killings persisted in the province”. He was also concerned about the collapsing state of education in the province. “As much as there is improvement in the province’s matric results, the reality tells you that the Department of Education is in a serious state of crisis. The department is going backwards,” he said. Sizwe Mchunu said the Department of Economic Development, which falls under MEC Sihle Zikalala, was also failing to deliver. “There is a growing number of people joining the figures of unemployed in the province as there has not been any improvement in job creation. “People have lost jobs, and the death of the poultry industry has compromised any initiative that seeks to create jobs,” said Sizwe Mchunu. Sizwe Mchunu said he expected Mchunu to on Wednesday give clear direction on how he would rescue the province from poverty. Political analyst Protus Madlala said Mchunu was unfortunate that he had been a premier when the ANC was busy tearing itself apart. “There is nothing positive I can say about his premiership, because killings have not stopped. Sindiso Magaqa was killed under his watch. “Killings in Glebelands Hostel continue under his watch. I am not blaming him, but this is happening under his premiership,” said Madlala. Daily News