Durban - Two young doctors have ignored the busy city centre and shopping malls and decided to set up camp in the uMlazi township, south of Durban. Siphesihle Dlamini, 27, and Langelihle Ngubane, 37, have opened a joint medical practice. Both Dlamini and Ngubane completed their MBChB degrees at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine and spent some of their childhood in uMlazi. They said their dream was to give back to their community and change healthcare for the better. Dlamini said his mother died while he was in Matric and his father died in Dlamini's final year of studies. They had encouraged him to turn all negative situations into positive ones. Dlamini was born in KwaMashu but later moved to uMlazi. He matriculated at iSibonelo High School in KwaMashu and completed his MBChB in 2013. He is currently studying towards a postgraduate diploma in Occupational Health and Safety. “When I was completing my community service at Prince Mshiyeni Hospital, Ngubane was already a well-established General Practitioner. He mentored me all the way and we are now good business partners and friends. Most importantly, we share the same dream and vision, hence we want to do more community outreach and make healthcare easily accessible to our communities,” said Dlamini. Ngubane had completed his MBChB 10 years earlier, in 2003. He was born in Nquthu, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Ngubane spent part of his childhood in the rural towns of Eshowe and kwaNongoma, where his father was a pastor. It was then that Ngubane noticed that poor communities struggled to access healthcare. He saw how people in rural communities had to travel long distances to nearby towns for healthcare services. “Growing up, I always believed that I would be a civil engineer. Now I don’t think I would have survived in that field. I have fallen in love with medicine. This profession gives you instant satisfaction as you get to establish good relations with your patients, here you don’t only treat physical ailments but you end up providing counselling and psycho- social care to patients as they share their stresses and anxieties with you on daily basis. Patients trust us and that gives one instant gratification,” said Ngubane. Ngubane said that opening a practice in uMlazi is a dream come true since he is also spent a few years in uMlazi. Ngubane also practices privately as an Occupational Health and Safety Officer for a company based in Durban. “Our new practice at P Section, Mayibuye Drive, in the heart of uMlazi Township  is a convenient one stop-shop where we offer services of managing acute and chronic conditions, diagnosis, treatment and specialist referral services,  pap smear, male circumcisions, medical information and advice, health check-ups, antenatal care, family planning which medical services that are most needed by our communities,” said Dlamini. The two doctors also run a busy medical practice in Pinetown. “The University of KwaZulu-Natal did not only train us to be good doctors, but also skilled us in leadership, and provided us a platform to grow relations and network as healthcare professionals,” said Ngubane. Daily News