The partnership will ensure that the R3 billion retirement offering within Zimbali Lakes Resort, near Ballito, will be unsurpassed, providing the launch pad for Evergreen’s expansion plans into KwaZulu-Natal. Founded in 1989, the Amdec Group is a privately-owned property development and investment business, and is recognised as South Africa’s leading developer of New Urban Lifestyles. With a key focus on increasing retirement opportunities nationally, Amdec recently confirmed a R675 million deal with the JSE-listed PSG Group, which will see the Evergreen Lifestyle brand expand to 3000 homes over the next three years. The Evergreen Lifestyle Zimbali Lakes will account for some 750 of these retirement units. Set within the Zimbali Lakes Resort, Evergreen Lifestyle Zimbali Lakes will include sectional title apartments, to be sold on a Life Rights basis for over-55s and will provide a dedicated on-site health-care centre, assisted living facilities, frail care and an array of luxury lifestyle amenities. Residents will also have access to the resort’s amenities, including a new 18-hole golf course, its 30ha lake, sporting facilities, and routes for mountain bikers, runners, or those just looking for a stroll. Phil de Sylva, IFA Hotels & Resorts senior vice president operations, confirms that: “We are delighted to have partnered with a brand that shares in our vision, which is to revolutionise retirement living. This agreement means that we now have the necessary capital to ensure that all facilities within Evergreen Lifestyle Zimbali Lakes will be 100% complete before the first resident moves in. “We have now concluded more than R650 million in land sales, enabling us to begin construction with the first transfers expected to take place by the end of the year and occupations earmarked by the end 2019.” James Wilson, the chief executive of the Amdec group said: “Every Evergreen village is different, and our core focus is to create retirement opportunities in safe, idyllic settings, situated in popular suburbs close to amenities, hospitals, and sports and leisure facilities. Zimbali ticks all of these boxes, and we are therefore thrilled to be merging our brands.” Daily News