The NEC, at the weekend, deployed its members across the country to hear how its members responded. In KwaZulu-Natal, NEC members had to deal with secretaries and chairpersons of branches who were angry with the way in which Zuma was removed before the end of his term. In six regions in the province, leaders accused the NEC of undermining them as the deployees did not arrive at meetings, which resulted in them being addressed by members of the provincial task team. Mabe said the NEC would only deal with what happened at the meeting once it received a briefing from its deployees. “The NEC is expected to sit soon and interact with them (deployees). It is important to realise that out of this whole process the ANC needs to emerge stronger and as one,” said Mabe. Some of Zuma’s staunchest branches in KwaZulu-Natal want him to play a leading role in the province ahead of next year’s elections. The idea was mooted at the weekend when the NEC criss-crossed the country explaining to branches why Zuma had been removed. “This shows that the ANC remains a united voice of our people,” said Mabe. In Durban, a branch representative told NEC member Zweli Mkhize at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Sunday that they wanted Zuma to be active in the province. “Comrades said we are going to make him one of our assets. He can lead us in whatever way the branches suggest. “It is even possible to lead us as the provincial chairperson because he is a member of the ANC in good standing depending on his availability,” said a branch secretary in the eThekwini region. Greater KwaDukuza Region secretary Thabani Mdlalose said the region has proposed that Zuma be deployed to assist with national projects. “He is a national asset. President Jacob Zuma played a role in the SADC (Southern African Development Community), and fits to act at that level” said Mdlalose. An ANC member who was at the NEC meeting in the Musa Dladla Region said 
it was suggested that Zuma’s Struggle history, experience and wisdom meant he would be able to run ANC political classes. “Our branches expressed love for him. They are proud that he is from the same region as they are,” said the source. Daily News