Readers were responding to the front-page article about a new way of teaching and learning sweeping the country. The teaching method, made popular by the Sun Valley Group of Schools in Cape Town, is based on the Finland Phenomenon which encourages children to spend time at home engaging in extramural activities rather than doing homework. Debbie Fortune, of Sun Valley Schools, said that when pupils got home, they did not have to deal with the stress of homework. “There are no arguments with parents about their work, the relationship between parent and child is improved with more quality time and the family is able to engage in a more creative and meaningful manner. We have found that reading has improved because of a 20-minute mandatory programme followed at school and at home,” she said. Responding to the article, scores of parents contacted the Daily News to share their views. “I agree 100% that homework should fall. I am tired of fighting with my children to get their homework done, which they start at 4.30pm. I would prefer to have quality time with my children in the afternoon, instead of the stress of getting homework done. If it is not done they get demerits and depending on the number of demerits, they then have to attend detention on a Friday after school,” wrote Michelle Lagesse. Another parent, Ayesha Mahomed, said as a teacher she understood first-hand how pupils had to sit for long hours, concentrating on large amounts of content at a time. “They spend five to eight hours using their brain with a break of 30 minutes to one hour a day. That is not enough time for a child to play. Time at home playing would develop certain skills as well relieve tensions or frustrations after sitting so long in a classroom. When they do not relieve their frustrations, it impacts on discipline.” Mahomed is of the opinion that the curriculum is so dense children are mentally exhausted. “A child’s concentration span is 45 minutes. Children should be given time to play,” she said. Gadija Barnes said by the time she got home from work there was little time to spend with her son. “He is 7 and goes to aftercare. Unfortunately, it is not their responsibility to help him with homework so he waits for me to come home. Depending on if the train is on time, I get home at about 6pm. We do his homework while I am busy with supper. After I bathe him, he falls asleep immediately. No quality time spent. It is really sad with the amount of homework that gets sent home,” she said. Mpho Mofokeng said his wife and son were always fighting because his son did not understand the homework given. “My wife and I are frustrated because we cannot assist him. Only the teacher can make head or tail of what is required,” he said. However, not all parents agreed. “Teaching has deteriorated and pass averages have been lowered to hide the downfall of the education system,” said Lappies Labuschagne. He said not doing homework took away pupils’ responsibility. “Children already get up to mischief in their spare time. Rather extend school by an hour and use that hour to do homework when teachers can help them.” Daily News