Last week, five police officers and a retired soldier were killed when unknown men attacked the Ngcobo police station in the Eastern Cape. Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini, 45; Constables Zuko Ntsheku, 38, Nkosiphendule Pongco, 32; Sibongiseni Sondlana, 32; and Kuhle Metete, 27; and retired soldier Freddie Mpandeni, 58, were killed. On Friday, seven suspects were killed in a shoot-out with police at the church, which they apparently used as their hideout. A police officer was injured and some suspects apparently managed to flee. At least 10 suspects were expected to appear in the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court on Monday for charges relating to the police station attack. Force The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) said it would investigate Friday’s shooting. It had not ruled out the possibility that police deployed to apprehend the men believed to be suspects, had used excessive force. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula applauded the police’s actions. “Let me tell you what we discovered when the police arrived. There is no church there, but there is Satanism. “Those people are not praying for anything, but they have hypnotised abantu (people),” said Mbalula. Vuyo Mhanga, Mbalula’s spokesperson, said Ipid would be doing its job if it investigated the police involved in the shoot-out. David Mosoma, the CRL Rights Commission deputy chairperson, said the commission used the church as a sample in its investigation into the commercialisation of religion, and learnt that it operated as a commune with social and religious beliefs that were “completely different to the rest”. He said their report was submitted to Parliament and it was in the hands of the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs portfolio committee to make a decision. Mosoma said if people joined the church, they left their homes and the outside world behind, and surrendered everything to the church commune. “We found that this would include your children, your wife, car and wealth. “People here had sold their homes and contributed all their wealth to the church and it becomes the property of the church,” said Mosoma. He said the commission had recommended that such churches be regulated. “We found that people here lived in their own cocoon and had no contact with the outside world at all. “Their children were not allowed to attend school and were made to believe that education was the work of the devil. We raised this issue and recommended that they must be regulated. We said this was a violation of the children,” said Mosoma Leaders He said the commission had met the leaders of the church outside the building and had never been inside the place. “We wanted them to be called to order and to account for what they were doing. We realised that they had strong beliefs in the way they lived their lives, but shutting down the church was not our decision to make,” he said. Daily News