The mother, who did not want to be named, said her 25-year-old son, who was diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder when he was 15, admitted himself to hospital in December after he started hearing voices in his head. King Dinizulu, a government hospital, tends to patients with mental health problems and also refers them to the relevant government institutions. While at the hospital, she said her son was able to get a scalpel and cut himself. “He had to get 16 stitches,” she said. The family wanted her son to be admitted to a mental institution because they could not have him at their home as he was not only a danger to himself, but to the family as well. What shocked them was that two days after cutting himself her son was released from hospital in December and back into their care. When they asked why, she said doctors at the hospital told her there was nothing wrong with him. He was left to his own devices and staff said that he had a drug problem and was not schizophrenic. “This was despite him being diagnosed as being schizophrenic and bipolar when he was 15 years old,” she said. Her woes, however, did not end there. At the beginning of the year, her son tried to kill himself by jumping in front of moving vehicle because he was hearing voices in his head. He sustained injuries to his back and his leg during the incident. “It has been terrible for both me and my daughter,” she said. This was an experience that she would not wish anyone to go through, she said. Social workers were approached to get him committed to a mental institution, but these efforts failed as they were told they could wait for anything from six months to a year as all facilities were full. Ncumisa Mafunda, the provincial Department of Health’s spokesperson, said: “Without divulging the confidential clinical information of the patient, in keeping with the law, the department can confirm that a particular patient was seen at one of its facilities and remains an inpatient for further evaluation and treatment.” She said there was a process that was followed when admitting a person to a mental health institution. “All mental health-care users are admitted to their nearest district facilities where they are thoroughly examined and investigated. “The period that they spend in these district facilities may vary depending on whether they have any other medical conditions that may be contributing to their illness,” Mafunda said. After being examined, a patient may remain under the watch of experienced staff up until they are fit to leave. But some patients leave due to a number of reasons which include defaulting on medication, she said. “The department would like to appeal to health-care users or their next of kin to seek information from health-care professional about their (health-care users’) medical treatment for clarity,” Mafunda said. Daily News