Durban - The National Council of SPCAs (NSPCA) recently welcomed the judgement handed down by the Nigel Regional Court in Johannesburg that found 17 men guilty of dog fighting. The dog fights were held in Tsakane, a township in Johannesburg. Nadia Hansa, an inspector at NSPCA said dog fighting happens throughout South Africa. “The dogs used in the fights are mainly pit bull terriers,” said Hansa. “These are not your typical park fights. These are brutal fights and they usually go on for two or three hours at a time.” Hansa said that some of the dogs die while others are injured. Tanya Fleischer, Durban & Coast SPCA Marketing Manager said the SPCA had eight successful convictions between 2016 and 2018, and most of the convictions were finalised during those years. A case in Wentworth March 2016 (Finalised January 2018) – dog’s ears were in a terrible state (chronic ear infection) and extremely damaged beyond repair. He was also severely infected with parasites – Guilty R 2 000/30 days in prison A case in Chatsworth in Sept 2016 (Finalised April 2017) – starving dog, chained without access to food or water  – Guilty R 10 000/1 year in prison + R 2 000 to the SPCA A case in Mayville in Feb 2017 (Finalised July 2017) – chained dog with no water and no veterinary treatment – Guilty R 200/60 days in prison A case in Chatsworth in March 2017 (Finalised December 2017) – Chained dog, starving, no veterinary treatment, died at the end of the chain – Guilty R 2 000/6 months in prison A case in Cato Manor – June 2017 (Finalised November 2017) – chained and starving, no veterinary treatment given – Guilty – R 3 000/6 months in prison + R 1 000 to SPCA and denial of ownership for 10 years A case in Pinetown – May 2016 (Finalised July 2017) – dog with severe, infected wounds, no veterinary treatment A case in Chatsworth in May 2016 (Finalised March 2017) – Chained dog x 3 and 1 puppy with severe injury, malnourished and failed to render veterinary treatment – Guilty – R 30 000/1 year in prison This case falls into the previous financial year Verulam in Jan 2016 (Finalised November 2016) – severe facial injury and failure to render veterinary treatment – R 6 000/1 year in prison “The Inspectorate Department are responsible for investigating any incidences of abuse, cruelty or neglect reported to us. They will take appropriate action as allowed for by law,” said Fleischer. She also said that the department does inspections of animal facilities and working animals are done regularly. Home inspections are done as part of animal adoptions and they also do rescues. Fleischer said that the Durban & Coast SPCA caters to all areas. “The SPCA covers a large areas from uMlazi in the south, to Eshowe in the north,” said Fleischer. Fleischer said that the SPCA has come across some of the worst acts of cruelty towards animals, which range from chaining dogs, to dogs being hanged. In other cases, animals are chained to the point where the chains cut deeply into the necks of animals. “Chaining and starvation of dogs to the point where the dog dies at the end of a chain,” said Fleischer. She also said that at times owners do not seek treatment for injured animals and at times the suffering the dog has been put through results in the dog being euthanized. “A dog was also put into a plastic garbage bag and thrown out of the window of a car into a field, luckily field workers witnessed this, saw the bag moving and alerted us, the dog was saved and adopted into a new home. We often investigate cases/ collect animals that have been abandoned/dumped,” she continued. She also said that the SPCA has come across animals that have been hanged, stabbed or shot. “Unfortunately cruelty and neglect are far too prevalent and our staff are faced with these cases constantly,” she said. She said that the SPCA deals with over a thousand cruelty cases a month and each inspector deals with an average of 11 cases a day, and this is among seven inspectors. Daily News