The Daily News has established that since Saturday, eight businesses in the central business district were robbed. These include clothing shops, an educational institute and food outlets. The incidents have sparked panic among business owners. Ahmed Razza, a concerned businessman speaking on behalf of his and other businesses, said they were under severe financial stress because of the economy, and additional budgeting for security would lead to several businesses closing down. “We are trying to manage our stores and make a profit. Crime on our doorstep has left us frustrated. We pay our taxes. We pay for our stock. Now businesses have to fork out for security. Businesses on Denis Hurley (Queen) Street are concerned that the CCTV cameras mounted around the city are not functioning or nobody is monitoring them,” Razza said. He was speaking after the  robbery of a pizza outlet on Berta Mkhize (Victoria) Street on Tuesday. A security guard who allegedly tried to foil the robbery is lucky to be alive after a bullet grazed his head. It is alleged that two men entered the store. One pointed a gun at the cashiers and told them and customers to get on the floor. A  source said the security guard then locked the shop door trapping the robbers inside. An argument ensued and one of the robbers was apparently pepper-sprayed by the guard. Shot The source said the other robber then shot the guard and kicked open the door, fleeing with R2 000. The guard was taken to hospital. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, police spokesperson, said a case of business robbery had been opened at Durban Central police station. A source close to investigations said most of the stores in the Durban CBD had been held up, adding that the worst stretch was along Dr Pixley KaSeme (West) Street between Dorothy Nyembe (Gardiner) and Joe Slovo (Field) streets where nearly all the stores had been robbed in the past six months. The source said there were too many syndicates operating in the city centre and claimed that the CCTV cameras were either not working or facing in the wrong direction. The source said police were unable to get vehicle registration numbers or crime scene footage after the suspects fled. Zwane said ongoing operations were conducted in the CBD and surrounding areas to curb any criminal activities “Criminals would pose as customers or students  and once they are inside the business they produce knives or firearms. The targeted businesses are restaurants and those selling cellphones,” he said. Zwane said they had increased police visibility in the CBD. This included police on foot patrol and in plain clothes. “Business owners can secure their business by installing CCTV cameras that would assist investigations,” he said. Parboo Sewpersad, metro police spokesperson, said the CCTV cameras were working, and referred questions to the city’s disaster management team which managed them. Daily News