Durban - Durban communities gave rallied together to assist the Child Welfare Durban and Districts after a fire ravaged the Edith Benson Children's Home last night. 
It is believed that the fire started in the roof of the building and quickly spread to the rest of the building. It is believed that a 3-year-old noticed smoke emanating from one of the rooms and alerted the caregivers on duty. According to firemen at the scene, the fire spread into the roof of the building, causing it to collapse. A fire chief, who spoke to the Daily News last night, said the care worker and staff worked fast to get the children out of the facility. “I must commend them for how fast they managed to get the children out. Fortunately, there were no injuries to the children,” he said. Garrith Jamieson, Operations Director at Rescue Care, said 57 children, aged between 3-months-old and 5-years-old escaped injury. At this stage, the cause of the fire has not been established. Last night, residents and care organisations rushed to the aid of the home. Packets of blankets, bottles and nappies were seen being handed over to management at the home. 
Anisha Ramlaul of the Child Welfare Durban and Districts has thanked the community for their assistance. She also commended staff and children for how quickly they were able to evacuate the building. This, Ramlaul said was due to ongoing evacuation training undertaken at the facility. 
"We would like the thank all the first respondants and members of the community for their assistance. There is a designated drop off point at the  Musjid us Saliheen in Harris Crescent, Sherwood. Ongoing needs of further provisions will be communicated via the Child Welfare Durban and District social media," she said. Speaking after a walkabout at the facility, Thusi said the facility, which includes the William Clark Gardens, they are working on removing the children from facility.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “We are arranging court orders in order to remove the children from the facility to other child youth centres. The homes sees to abused, neglected and abandoned children. The parents have been alerted so they are aware,” she said. Thusi said her department will be undertaking auditd at all child and youth care centres. “We are awaiting for the report. We want to ensure that these facilities are complying with our standards,” Thusi said. The home has 95 children on the property. No children were injured. Hundreds of bags have been collected for the home. These bags are made up on baby formula,  nappies, clothing and blankets. A team from eThekwini Municipality was also at the scene last night to assess the damage and assist with relief efforts. Daily News