“Not a single shovel, barrow of sand or bag of cement is on site,” the DA councillor told the full council meeting and officials on Wednesday. Beetge, the local councillor in the affected area and the whip on the city’s municipal public accounts committee, pleaded with the city manager to call an urgent meeting with senior officials to address the situation. “It has gone beyond being a joke and action is needed now, “ he said. The devastation to the infrastructure caused by the one-in-50-year storm on October 10 was increasing daily and ultimately, so, too, would be the bill to the municipality, Beetge said. “The reality is that the damage is increasing by the day as unrepaired sewer and stormwater lines cause further erosion with examples evident along Andrew Zondo (Kingsway) Road, Dawn Place, Dick King Place, Snaeffel Road and Winifred Drive in eManzimtoti, just like other areas. And with every cubic metre of sand, square of road or pathway that disappears down an embankment, the cost of repairs just increases and increases,” he said. The council had already approved about R700 million to pay for all the repairs, but Beetge said that the delays would add about R35m on to the bill. He recalled that the big storm tore across eMkhomazi, eManzimtoti, KwaMakhutha, Isipingo, uMlazi, Lamontville, Montclair and the Bluff. The delays in fixing the infrastructure had nothing to do with councillors. They were all able to produce the first of two lists of damage by October 18, with the bill coming to an estimated R308m (R141m of it earmarked as emergency and R167m as urgent and “thus repairable via normal tender processes”.) This was followed by a second list of damages totalling R94m as emergency and R10m as urgent, the total of the two lists coming to R412m, he said. “But it did not end there, as this council also approved an amount from the water and sanitation department bringing the total to just short of R700m.” “Councillors across all parties were relieved when Exco recommended and this council approved repairs and authorised re-prioritisation of funding from road rehabilitation and other savings on November27 and December 8.” Beetge claimed the blame for the delays lay at the door of officials who went on holiday instead of dealing with the issue. He pointed out that the contractor panel expired on December 19 “and letters of award were thus not signed in anticipation of awarding contracts in favour of yet-to-be determined new suppliers”. He suggested that while waiting for the new panel to be appointed, the previous panel with the necessary capacity should carry out the repairs. Tozi Mthethwa, the municipality’s  spokesperson, said that all infrastructure repairs began yesterday. “We currently have teams on site establishing the amount of work that needs to be conducted. “The delay was due to supply chain management processes that the city has to adhere to at all times.” Daily News