Resident Roxanne Pennington said the security guards were inactive and watched as people erected their shacks. The guards’ inaction has left the community fuming. “People want to take the law into their own hands,” she said. The dispute last year over the land at New City led to violent clashes between the two groups. This resulted in Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay intervening to resolve the conflict. However, tensions are threatening to boil over again. Pennington said the guards told them that their job was to prevent violence and not to prevent shack construction. “It has become a free-for-all. It is out of control,” she said. Another resident, Michelle Norman, said there was no hope that anything would be done because the guards sat idly all day. She said what was happening there was an injustice. Mbulelo Baloyi, Department of Human Settlements spokesperson, said they had engaged with the security guards to ensure that state land was protected. Court “The land invasions in Mariannridge and other areas are currently subject to court proceedings. The department, as directed by the court, is engaging with all the relevant stakeholders in the matter and a memorandum of understanding will be entered into to stem further illegal occupation of state land,” Baloyi said. He added that land invasion was a problem and a strategy to deal with it had been formulated and was awaiting final approval of the provincial executive council. This would involve engaging all stakeholders, he said. Thapelo Mohapi, shack dwellers' movement Abahlali baseMjondolo spokesperson, said people who were currently building shacks in the area were not a part of the movement. They had found that some people were being told by political parties to set up shacks in the area even though they were not covered by the consent order they obtained last year. The organisation is currently embroiled in a legal battle with the eThekwini Municipality over the demolition of shacks. “As much as the matter with the municipality is in court, we are trying to find a political solution to the matter,” he said. One of the solutions they have found after negotiations with the department to prevent the erection of new shacks, is to have leaders in New City and Cato Manor, the other hot spot in last year’s clashes between shack dwellers and Bonela residents. Daily News