Durban - Six policemen were killed in two separate incidents in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape - two of whom killed execution style. The first incident occurred in Mount Moriah, north of Durban late Tuesday night when a Metro policeman, dressed in full uniform was killed in an apparent botched hijacking. Just hours later five policemen were killed by an armed gang at an Eastern Cape police station. Police launched a manhunt for a gang of at least ten men who killed the officers in the Eastern Cape. The officers were attacked while at the Ngcobo Police Station between Umtata and Queenstown in the Eastern Cape. According to police, the armed gang entered the police station in the early hours of Wednesday and without warning, randomly opened fire on the members on duty. “Three members were killed instantly in the Community Service Centre. An off-duty soldier was also shot dead as the suspects were fleeing,” police spokesperson, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said. “The suspects made off with a police van taking two other members. The bodies of both these members with gunshot wounds were later found along the roadside, six kilometres from the police station. According to preliminary investigations,  it appears that members were shot execution style,” he said. Ten firearms and a police van were stolen during the raid. The motive for the attack was unknown. National police commissioner General Khehla John Sitole described the attack as “callous and cold-blooded” "I am appalled and deeply saddened by the cold and callous attack on our colleagues this morning," said General Sitole. "I have activated a task team comprising of experienced detectives of the South African Police Service and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation to investigate this attack," said General Sitole. This team will be supported by specialized medium to high-risk teams with the added support of the Airwing. "We will not rest until we have tracked down these heartless killers and bring them to book", added General Sitole. The National Commissioner has also called on the community to assist with any information that could help identify and bring these perpetrators to book as this is a heartless attack on the State. Naidoo said that while the motive for the attack was not clear yet police have established that the suspects had robbed an ATM a short distance away from the police station. Police in Durban were also hunting the killer of a Durban Metro policeman who was shot dead on the R102. Prem Balram of Reaction Unit South Africa said the officer was shot in the chest and died in the driver’s seat of his VW Golf. “Circumstances surrounding the murder are unclear at this stage however it is alleged that the Warrant Officer based in KwaMashu may have been the victim of a botched hijacking. He was allegedly on his way to buy something to eat when the shooting occurred. No suspects have been arrested at this stage,” Balram said. Daily News 