She was even more grateful that he would never again hurt another woman. Serial rapist Bhekunjalo Aaron Mkhize Ndimande, 29, was sentenced in the Durban High Court to two terms of life imprisonment for rape and murder and a further 35 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances, sexual offences, malicious injury to property and escaping from custody. The latter would run concurrently with the life sentence. Giya Shandu, 82, had testified in aggravation of sentence on how the loss of her granddaughter, who was seven months’ pregnant, and her unborn baby had brought pain to her life. She said as an elderly person, who was also ill, her loss had been unbearable. Shandu held her walking stick and danced for joy outside court on Tuesday after it was explained to her what had just happened. She had not clearly understood the sentencing procedures. “Does that mean that he will never hurt other women like he hurt my granddaughter?” she asked twice - and then jumped for joy. She thanked the police and the court. “Justice has been served. I am grateful that I was able to witness justice. My granddaughter can now rest in peace. Although I will never see her again, I am sure she is happy about the outcome of the case. She must be happy wherever she is,” she said amid tears. The half-naked body of her granddaughter was found by her neighbours in one of the rondavels at her homestead in the Ntshongeni Reserve in Umbumbulu on October29, 2013. She had been strangled and raped. Acting Judge Anand Maharaj made the order that Ndimande’s  three surviving rape victims be consulted should Ndimande apply for parole. One of the five women had testified during aggravation of sentence on Tuesday. She shielded her face with her hands throughout her testimony. She did not want to see Ndimande. “I never saw the man who raped me, but I am convinced that the man convicted today is him,” she testified. The body of Nomalungelo Freegirl Njilo was found at a house in Umkomaas on February 25, 2015. She had been raped. On April 6, 2011, another woman was walking home from work when she encountered Ndimande near the Emfume area. He overpowered her and forced her into the bushes, where he raped her, and stole her handbag. On December 7, 2011, he attacked another victim in the Umbumbulu area, near a church. After a short conversation with Ndimande, who claimed to be looking for someone, the woman entered her home. He followed her into her home where he raped and strangled her. The pain and suffering of another victim, a mentally ill woman, was also evident. She said her mental health became worse after the rape. “I am scared of men and because I got a sexually transmitted disease when I was raped, I have never got involved with any man,” she said. State advocate Krishen Shah had called for the minimum prescribed sentence on all charges, saying that there was no compelling and circumstantial evidence for the court to deviate from the prescribed sentences. Maharaj described Ndimande as a rapist and a murderer who had no remorse for his actions. “You took advantage of defenceless women on their way home from work. You’re a danger to society and especially women. You robbed them of a right to life and to live with dignity,” said Maharaj. Daily News 