This was the seventh 
incident at the school where the mother claimed her son was being used as a punching bag. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on Sunday said it was governed by the Child Justice Act, and according to the law could not prosecute 
anyone under the age of 8. Natasha Kara, NPA regional spokesperson, said a probation officer would normally deal with such cases involving children. The mother had opened a case of assault after an incident last year that left her child unconscious. The charge was later withdrawn by the NPA. The mother said she had now run out of options to save her little boy. The Daily News published her child’s story last week, but her son was apparently assaulted again on Friday. The mother said the principal told her to remove her child from the school if she was unhappy. She said on Sunday that her son came home traumatised on Friday. “My son told me that he tried to defend himself and was thumped on the back of his head so that he could feel what it is like to be hit. “I have been encouraging him to stop being a victim and hit back, but this does not solve the problem,” the mother said. Kara said the matter was not enrolled in court because both parties were under age and the matter was referred to the police who would have appointed a probation officer to deal with the case further. The mother said this was news to her, because it never happened. Struggle Since her story was published, a parent from eManzimtoti came forward about her two-year struggle against the two high school pupils who allegedly assaulted her son and injured his face. Although the boys were apparently found guilty by a tribunal, served with a warning letter, suspended for two days and made to complete a project about bullying, the mother 
felt the perpetrators got off lightly. She said an assault case was allegedly never taken seriously by the police. On Thursday, her son was allegedly assaulted by boys at his new high school. “According to my son, the culprits know the boys who assaulted him at his previous school. I thought he was going to be safer here, but after last week’s incident I do not know what to do.” She said what made it worse was that everyone was talking about it and her son felt humiliated. She said his present school was aware of the incident and had pleaded with her not to open a criminal case pending the disciplinary findings this week. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, said a case of assault was investigated by the Toti police and the docket was sent to the senior public prosecutor for a decision, but the charge was withdrawn by the NPA. Kara said the NPA would trace the matter, look at the merits of the case and the reasons it was withdrawn, taking into consideration that the alleged perpetrators were over the age of eight. Kwazi Mthethwa, the 
Department of Education spokesperson, said investigations were still under way in the Durban primary school incidents. Mthethwa said they condemned bullying and encouraged parents to follow the correct channels when reporting such matters to the department through their school governing bodies. Failing which, he said, they could contact him directly. Daily News