It is exciting news for not only the Proteas, but for the KZN Cricket Union, the stadium itself, and Durban as a whole as cricket fans flock to see some big names that will be on offer from both sides come on Thursday. Virat Kohli, as well as locally produced stars like David Miller, Andile Phehlukwayo and Lungi Ngidi, will all be wanting to shine under the Durban night sky in this day-night game. For the newly appointed Dolphins chief executive officer, it is an exciting time. He continues to rush around the stadium in preparation for his first ODI in charge. “It is exciting,” Heinrich Strydom said. “A sold-out stadium is incredible, but that is what you would expect with the Indian team being here. But I think it also means the world to South Africa and the Proteas, and it means the vibe is here and the support is here for the team.” Durban’s population is richly diverse and is known to have a strong and passionate Indian population who enjoy their cricket. Strydom believes that has its role to play in the stadium being filled up, but believes that most of the fans at the stadium will be behind the boys in green. “I think there will be more Protea fans; I have not really heard of too many Indian touring groups,” he mused. “Our Durban population is the biggest Indian population outside of India, but there are a lot of proud Protea supporters in there.” Asked what a full stadium means for Durban, the KZN Cricket Union and other interested parties, Strydom saw it as an opportunity to increase the desirability of Kingsmead and get those same fans back over and over again. “The full stadium confirms the popularity of cricket in KZN. We want to host this event, and make it a proper event, and make people want to come back for the next game,” he added. “From an economic perspective, it is a big boost to our annual budget, and we want to make sure guys come for the international games, but through that, they also come for the domestic ones.” Strydom remarked that he felt the pitch would be a good one come on Thursday. Durban has a reputation for green mambas, but this is likely to be a more balanced contest. “This season the pitch has mostly been good, with good carry and seam,” Strydom said. “With the rain over November and December, there was a lot of bounce, but the sun has played a role now. I think it will be an even cricketing surface and it should be a fair contest between bat and ball; that is what you want from an ODI surface.” Head groundsman Wilson Ngobese, who has been working the Kingsmead pitch since the 1980s, echoed the CEO’s sentiment. Asked how he thinks the pitch will play, he said: “It’s going to be a good pitch; there will be nice seam and bounce. I have been working on it for seven days now, and we saw how it played back in December when the Dolphins had a T20 on it.” Mthunzi Gumede, spokesperson for eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede, said she hoped the Proteas do well. “We urge all sports-loving people to support the Proteas.” Daily News