Two of the parents recently launched an urgent application in the Durban High Court against the school and the department. Attorney Shireen Soobrathi, representing the parents, said the court had ordered the department to make a decision about the pupils concerned, and gave them three weeks to communicate the decision. Soobrathi said the department had come back to them and refused to pass the pupils. She said they had also requested the department to supply them with a list of teachers who were underqualified, but the department apparently failed to do so. She said they were considering launching another court application The parents argued that the school had failed to act quickly to help their children, and had also failed to keep them informed. According to their court papers, the school only informed them that their children would fail the year during a meeting in the third term. The principal apparently said at this meeting that no one should knock on his door if their child failed as no extra marks would be given. One of the applicants was concerned after receiving his child’s first-term report, and approached his child’s teacher, who apparently assured him there was nothing to worry about. He said his son had not improved by the end of the second term, and he again approached the teacher. “He informed me that due to my child and some children in the class commencing schooling earlier than other children, he would need time to adapt. I enquired as to whether it would be necessary for my child to attend extra lessons outside the school, and he said I must leave it to him and that he would sort out the difficulties,” read the parent’s affidavit. He said although he had at that stage recommended sending his son for extra classes, the teacher assured him that he would take care of the child. “The principal was well aware that the pupils at the school were experiencing difficulties in Afrikaans and maths lessons. In the event that he acted diligently in the first term and identified the said difficulties, he would surely have put in place interventions on time,” the parent continued. The other parents in the court application claimed they were also unaware their children were struggling at school until a meeting was called by the principal in June. One said her attempts to get the teacher to send the children’s workbooks home so that parents could help fell on deaf ears. “The teacher told us that sending workbooks home was not allowed by the school,” the parent said. They have since removed their child and placed him at another school in the area, pending the outcome of the court application. “The situation has caused my child and the entire family frustration. It seems there was no communication between the teachers and the principal regarding our children,” said the mother. The rest of the parents who have since joined the two parents in their demands have jointly written to the Department of Education demanding action against the school. Kwazi Mthethwa, the department’s spokesperson, could not respond to the specific questions sent to him. He said the department’s lawyers would handle the matter now that it was in court. “We believe in engaging with parents on issues affecting their children at our schools. Now that they have taken the matter to court, we will meet them there,” said Mthethwa. Daily News