Durban - Durban snake catcher Nick Evans is basking in the spotlight after safely catching a 2.78m black Mamba in Kloof on Tuesday. It is the longest mamba he had ever caught by 3cm! Evans of the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, he received a call of a black mamba curled up on a cycad on a Kloof property. The homeowner said Evans is a thought this mamba would be better off relocated away from dogs and people. Evans said the mamba was on a steep, rocky, and slippery slope which had many dassie holes and tunnels. "My friend Ian led me to the tunnel that he saw the mamba enter. It went behind a boulder, which was leaning against another boulder with a nasty-looking drop behind me. There were so many rocks in and around these two, forming many tunnels," Evans said. "I couldn't move any of the rocks, and out of the three main tunnels, I could only see the mamba from one, which was to my left. I was trying to prod it out of hiding. Keith stood on a rock above the mambas hideout, with tongs at the ready in case I needed help. This snake knew it was safer in there rather than out, but it was obviously cornered- it chose the wrong tunnel it seemed! Still, I couldn't get it where it was. It had pressed itself back into a gap in the rock. It would occasionally poke its head out and gape at me. I won't lie, nerves and adrenaline were giving me the shakes. This was not an easy situation at all!" Evans explained. Evans managed to grab hold of the snake using his tongs. "At first I was fine, but as it used its long, powerful body to try and pull & twits out of my hand, my grip worsened. I was now in big trouble, it's jaw was slipping out of my grip. I was bracing myself for the worst case scenario. Thankfully, I had another friend Keith standing right behind me, ready to pin it down for me with the tongs. But after some adjustment, using my tongs, I got a better grip. A bucket was handed down, and I managed to get it in there quickly, despite the bucket not being on stable ground (against what I usually do, but I was desperate). It was all over!" Evans explained. Daily News