Durban - Epilepsy is a chronic, neurological disorder that causes interference with your brain’s electrical system. This change in electrical impulses may cause brief changes in movement, behaviour, feeling or awareness, said Dr Robyn Holgate, ER24 Chief Medical Officer. Monday was the start of National Epilepsy Week, a disorder which is usually misunderstood. Holgate squashes some of the myths associated with epilepsy. Holgate explained that seizures, abnormal movements or behaviour due to unusual electrical activity in the brain, are symptoms of epilepsy. However, she said that not all people who have seizures have epilepsy. “Approximately 10% of the population will have seizures, and approximately 1% will be diagnosed with epilepsy,” she said. Causes of epilepsy Holgate said there are many causes of epilepsy, for instance, some epilepsies are genetic. She said epilepsy does not have an identifiable cause in about half the people. In the other half, epilepsy can be traced to factors such as: •Head trauma as a result of a car accident or other traumatic injury. • Brain conditions, such as brain tumours or strokes, can cause epilepsy. Stroke is a leading cause of epilepsy in adults older than age 35. • Infectious diseases, such as meningitis, AIDS and viral encephalitis, can cause epilepsy. •Prenatal injury. Before birth, babies are sensitive to brain damage that could be caused by several factors, such as an infection in the mother, poor nutrition or oxygen deficiencies. This brain damage can result in epilepsy or cerebral palsy. 5 myths on epilepsy  You can swallow your tongue during a seizure It is physically impossible to swallow your tongue. If left on your back, your tongue may obstruct your airway, but it’s not possible to swallow your tongue.  You should force something into somebody’s mouth having a seizure Absolutely not. This could damage teeth, the patient’s jaw and gums. The correct first aid technique is to gently roll somebody onto their side and put something soft under their head (such as a pillow). You should also never restrain somebody having a seizure.  Epilepsy is contagious You cannot catch epilepsy from another person.  Only kids get epilepsy Epilepsy may affect people of any age, but in our older population the causes may be as a result of health conditions rather than genetic factors.  People with epilepsy should not be in jobs of responsibility Epilepsy is a chronic medical problem, which can be managed with medication. When this condition is well-managed, those suffering from epilepsy can be active and valuable members of society. Some people may be able to identify what triggers their epilepsy. This may include lack of sleep, illness, stress, bright or flashing lights, caffeine or alcohol, and skipping meals. Where a trigger is identified these triggers should be avoided if possible.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Tips on what to do when someone suffers a seizure. Video: ER24 What to do when someone has a seizure •Ease the person to the floor. •Turn the person gently onto one side - this will help the person breathe. •Clear the area around the person of anything hard or sharp. This can prevent injury. •Put something soft and flat, like a folded jacket or a pillow, under his or her head. •Remove eyeglasses. •Loosen ties or anything around the neck that may make it hard to breathe. Call an ambulance if the seizure lasts longer than 5 minutes  Daily News