The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) general secretary said he was most amused when he heard about the SA Communist Party calling for consultation. “I am sure Blade can’t wait to go back to his cushy job and BMW. Consultation to them (the allies) means 'don’t forget about me',” Vavi said, referring to SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande. Nzimande was axed as Minister of Higher Education and replaced by Professor Hlengiwe Mkhize in Zuma’s 11th cabinet reshuffle. ANC allies, the SACP and Cosatu, called for serious consultation before any cabinet reshuffle, saying it should not be a one-man show as was the case in the past few years. They stressed the importance of placing unity at the forefront of such major decisions that affected the whole country, and said they were looking to mend the relationship between the tripartite alliance partners. But Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said that consulting on a cabinet reshuffle did not mean Cosatu and SACP members should be placed as ministers, but rather that they all had a platform to share their views. He said that it had always been the tradition of the alliances - although working independently - to be consulted. Ntshalintshali said that if they were jointly consulted, they would have a platform to voice their views on under-performing ministers, whereas in recent years they had only had a public voice. “We could only scream our disapproval in public. If properly consulted, we can go to the president in a silent way to discuss the performance of ministers,” he said. He said that in recent years when Zuma failed to consult with them, some ministers gave South Africa "the middle finger" because they believed that the president had placed them there, so only he was in a position to fire them. He said consultation was needed from the beginning. “We don’t want those midnight calls telling us this is what is going to happen. We want to be involved from the moment the president decides he wants to review his cabinet,” said Ntshalintshali. Eight cabinet reshuffles took place after the start of Zuma's second term in office in 2012, and he was heavily criticised for not consulting with the alliance partners and his Top Six. This resulted in the SACP and Cosatu calling for Zuma’s removal as president. With Zuma’s resignation and the appointment of Cyril Ramaphosa as president of the republic, the allies believe the tripartite relationship can be mended. SACP spokesperson Alex Mashilo said that in the past three years, consultation with them had been marginalised, and this had led to the collapse of the relationship. “We don’t want that any more. We are calling for radical changes to the cabinet, but we expect to be consulted prior to that. The ANC and the alliances fought alongside each other for democracy. We need to put unity at the front, and we cannot develop national democracy if we don’t have democracy at home,” Mashilo said. He said the SACP took a decision last year that incompetent ministers, those who found themselves embroiled in state capture allegations and those related to a number of other issues, needed to be removed from cabinet. “It is very clear that there needs to be changes to the cabinet. It needs to be a collective leadership. We cannot have deployees making decisions elsewhere and then not being held accountable,” Mashilo added. The alliances were meant to meet last week, but the meeting was postponed because of the decision taken by the ANC’s national executive committee to recall Zuma, and his eventual resignation. Daily News