Durban - Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa, has welcomed the sentencing of two men convicted for rape. Langa was commenting following the sentencing of the two, aged 31 and 33 following separate rape incidents. “These accused had no mercy with the young children and they failed to protect them. Instead, they raped the victims. This attitude by relatives who failed to protect their loved ones cannot be tolerated. Our experienced and skilled FCS members will leave no stone unturned in dealing with such cases and bring those involved to book,” Langa said. In the first incident, the uncle of a 15-year-old teenage girl has been convicted and sentenced for rape. The 31-year-old man was convicted and sentenced by the Esikhaleni Regional Court, said Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. He said he was also sentenced to eight years imprisonment for sexual assault. “On 29 December 2016 at 5pm, the victim was walking along the footpath at Bhekizwe Reserve, Esikhaleni when she was approached by her uncle. The accused asked her about her boyfriend and he threatened to tell her mother if she does not speak the truth. The victim was sexually assaulted and raped. She was further threatened to be killed should she report what had happened to her,” Zwane explained. In another incident, Esikhaleni Regional Court also sentenced a stepfather to 18 years imprisonment for raping his stepdaughter at Nqamuzana Reserve in Mtunzini. “On 2 October 2016, the victim, 12, was sleeping at home when her father quietly entered her room and raped her. Luckily, she managed to identify the accused although in was dark,” Zwane continued. In another unrelated rape case, a stepfather, 33, was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment for raping his stepdaughter at Nqamuzana Reserve in Mtunzini. He was sentenced by the Esikhaleni Regional Court after the magistrate heard how he raped his daughter. On 2 October 2016, the victim, 12, was sleeping at home when her father quietly entered her room and raped her. Luckily, she managed to identify the accused although in was dark. A case of rape was opened at Mtunzini police station and later, the accused was arrested. Daily News