Justin Bieber was "very supportive" of Selena Gomez's decision to seek treatment for depression and anxiety. Selena recently completed two weeks of in-patient treatment at a facility in New York and friends say Justin, 23, who she reconciled with last year, was happy she made the decision to look after her mental health. A source told PEOPLE: "Justin and Selena are doing great. "Their relationship is very special. They have both changed, their lives are so different and it really seems things could work out great this time. Justin saw that he needed to change, reached out for help and is doing very well.” “The same [goes] for Selena — the second she doesn’t feel well, she seeks help. They have both hugely matured. Justin is very supportive of Selena feeling her best. Kylie Jenner announces birth of baby girl, shares pregnancy video "They are happy to be back together in LA now and Selena seems very happy." It was recently revealed that Selena, 25, is feeling "very empowered" she had therapy, ate healthily and enjoyed Pilates and meditation during her time in treatment. A source said: "She felt like she needed to get away and focus on herself with no distractions. She came back feeling very empowered. She wants to go again later this year. She feels and looks great. She's still working on new music and is excited about it. After all the noise that happened over the holidays, she felt like she needed this." Selena previously revealed she is constantly trying to reinvent herself and feels the need to "grow" and get stronger all the time. She shared: "I'm constantly somebody that likes to grow and feel like, 'All right, what can I be better at, what could I do better at, where could my confidence be stronger?' I'm 25, so I feel like I'm going to change a lot and enjoy that. "I worked really hard on my music this year and I'm really excited to put it all together. I like to choose to live my life in a way where I want to be weight-free, and I know that's impossible to do because I have a million [eyes] on me right now. But I think it is important to kind of go through your life the way you want and I like to come at things with my best. That's all I know how to do, just give my best." Bang Showbiz