Toerien said their intention was to provide their advisers with information as they went about their planning. “We questioned some of the assumptions that we always take for granted to test that they are truthful, and if we accept that they probably are no longer valid, how does that change the way we go about our business?” he said. “As an industry we still suffer the trust and perception problem. We still have clients who are under-insured, do not have cover and, more importantly, have the wrong type of cover, and the savings crisis. We still need to do a better job at helping our customers and clients make better decisions.” Toerien said that there were inherently wrong assumptions clouding the industry. “Unpacking that myth makes one realise how it has become so built into our perceptions and now drives almost every decision we make.” Industry actuarial legend Rob Rusconi said the key message was that the industry tended to think about its products in boxes, while customers did not respect those boxes. “In everything we do, we should think about our customers as people, and work hard to get the product to meet their needs rather than what we think is convenient to offer,” said Rusconi. He said he was optimistic and excited about the investing environment and how it was going to change. “We have political changes that should bring greater openness, that I believe will release entrepreneurial activity at the ground level. Our people have a much better chance of succeeding in an open and transparent environment that our new leadership is in a position to usher in.” Founder and chief executive of Cannon Asset Managers Adrian Seville said the South African investment industry was in a state of “hopeful anxiety”. “In the beginning of 2018 we find currency strength, calls for optimism about the economy and political hope - those three would suggest that though we might be fatigued and disenchanted by the country's economic landscape over the past years, there is a reason to believe that the next years look different and for that reason there are some fantastic opportunities in the domestic environment.” Daily News