While some said they were not in favour of informal settlements in the area, they believed the correct eviction procedures were not followed during a recent raid. When the Daily News visited the area recently, people living at the settlement said they were assaulted and their belongings burnt. One of the men said he had been living at the site for five years and that they were not previously told to move. “The officers came here and told us we had 30 minutes to gather our clothing. Some were injured when the officers fired rubber bullets at us. I was shot on my back and leg,” he said. The informal settlement residents claimed they were often assaulted since the incident on January 9, and told to leave. “The next day, they came back and burnt our belongings,” another said. According to a woman who said she had been shot in the chest with a rubber bullet, a guard “told me I was being like a child who did not listen to their parents and I would get strong punishment”. There are two informal settlements. One is closer to Tara Road and a second one is a little further away. The informal residents claim to be given the run-around when they report assaults at the local police station. “The constable takes down the information. Then he tells us he cannot open a case because he does not know what case it should be. He has to wait for the station commander. After waiting, we then leave and are not given any case numbers. When we go back to find out what is happening, they tell us they do not have the docket,” one of the men said. The  association said while they supported eradicating settlements, they were not in favour of the treatment the people said they experienced. Bluff ward councillor JP Prinsloo said he was aware of the invasion unit moving in on the area. “All relevant law enforcement departments responded to my office’s request to assist with the removal of illegal structures.” Prinsloo said the informal residents were given a letter from his office asking that the Department of Human Settlements provide them with a shelter or permanent homes. However, residents said they did not receive any such letters. According to Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, their Land Invasion Unit is mandated to prevent any illegal erection or unauthorised building within the municipality. Thapelo Mohapi, secretary-general of shackdwellers’ movement  Abahlali baseMjondolo, said the evictions were unlawful as the municipality did not have a court order to demolish people’s structures. “The sad part is that the ward councillor, instead of helping people who are homeless, calls them criminals. “When the leadership of Abahlali baseMjondolo arrived the people were destitute and confused because their homes were demolished.” Responding to claims that informal residents’ charges were not properly handled by police, SAPS Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said police officers were well trained. “They know exactly what case to open. It is not true that our officers do not know what charges to open. Normally the complainant gets a case number by way of a cellphone as a message. Sometimes it is not easy to get it immediately,” he said. Daily News