The ANC in KZN will hold a 106th anniversary rally in Vryheid this weekend, in reaction to an ANC Youth League (ANCYL) rally which took place in Pietermaritzburg last weekend. The Vryheid event will be addressed by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa’s backers: Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Bheki Cele; former provincial party chairperson Senzo Mchunu; and Laurence Dube, one of the court applicants in the case against the suspended provincial executive committee (PEC). The event will be held at the Beyers Naude Branch, which is chaired by Dube, who is also treasurer of the ANC Vryheid sub-region. The event held in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday was addressed by President Jacob Zuma’s supporters, including party secretary-general Ace Magashule, former AU Commission chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, PEC boss Sihle Zikalala and national and provincial ANCYL leaders. Beyers Naude branch secretary Zipho Zwane confirmed that none of the leaders of their rival ­faction would be at the rally. He said his faction could not invite its opponents while the provincial task team still lacked balance, with Zikalala’s faction dominating. “We cannot invite them because this will blur factional lines, and that will divide the party. If there was a balanced provincial task team (PTT), we would’ve invited speakers beyond factions. Disputed “We cannot invite people who are not united with us,” said Zwane. ANC spokesperson Khusela Diko said the issue of the disputed composition of the PTT in KZN and the Free State had been discussed at a high level, and that the outcome of discussions would be communicated at a later stage. Zwane said Cele was invited as the main guest speaker as he had been earmarked to lead the ANC campaign for the 2019 election in the Abaqulusi region against the IFP, which Zwane said had dominated the region. “In KZN, Bheki Cele is loved within the ANC and he is able to deal with the IFP head-on,” he said. Zwane said his faction still believed Zikalala was a “capable cadre”, but they wanted  the ANC in KZN to repair the political damage. He said Dube would give ANC members in Abaqulusi feedback on the Pietermaritzburg High Court case that nullified the PEC, leading to the national executive committee transferring its responsibilities to the PTT. In Pietermaritzburg at the weekend, ANCYL provincial chairperson Kwazi Mshengu told ANC supporters that factionalist leaders were not invited. “We know in KZN comrades mobilise into a splinter group in the ANC. This is not a faction gathering.” Daily News