The department said it had struck a deal with the Witwatersrand University’s Health Consortium to have the services of oncologists five days a week, eight hours a day. The Wits Health Consortium (WHC) is wholly owned by Wits and functions as a support operation through which the university’s health-care science faculty conducts research and supports clinical trials. Addressing the media at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital (IALCH) on Thursday, Health MEC, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, said the oncologists were sourced through the department’s supply chain management processes. “The contract stipulates that the three oncologists from the consortium will work five days a week so we are elated that 
150new and 300 follow-up patients per month will be attended to. “These oncologists have undertaken to hit the ground running as IALCH has three serviceable Linear Accelerators (radiotherapy machines),” Dhlomo said. He said the contract would help cut down waiting times for new patients to an average of six to eight weeks. Dhlomo acknowledged that the department’s attempts to recruit and retain full-time oncologists had been unsuccessful, but said the hunting process would continue. Part of the plan was the funding of oncology registrar training. These registrars have been placed in the Western Cape and Free State universities. There are seven trained registrars at present. “These individuals have agreed to come back and serve in the province. “Two candidates from Saudi Arabia and Ireland were interviewed for the head of oncology post at the Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine. Re-accredited “We hope that Durban facilities will be re-accredited to train oncologists before the end of the year in time for the next cohort of oncology registrars. We are really serious in allaying the fears of our people with regards to cancer treatment,” he said. The MEC said at Addington Hospital, one Linear Accelerator would be replaced by a new one; the second machine would be repaired and its software upgraded; and both machines would be commissioned by the end of April. Dhlomo said the province saw “at least” 365 new cancer patients every month and 1400 patients visited the oncology clinics as follow-ups every month. When asked about the deal regarding assistance from private sector oncologists, Dhlomo said, with the permission of the Treasury, they had deviated from the private arrangement. “Whoever wanted to come and assist would be welcome, an arrangement would be made,” he said. Dr Wezile Chitha, assistant dean of Strategic Affairs at the Wits Faculty of Sciences, said they had introduced themselves to the provincial department to assist in improving the state of oncology. “The country has embarked on the NHI programme and we fully support that policy initiative. This is part of how we train ourselves for the implementation of the programme,” Chitha said. Daily News