“It tells you something about the failure of the department when it comes to planning,” provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said at a media briefing on Tuesday. “I think it is an abnormal situation. The issue of understanding supply and demand,” Caluza said. She said there were many vacancies at the Department of Education at school level which had not been filled. There were pupils who had not had teachers since schools opened this year and this would affect pupils come exam time. The Daily News reported last week that a group of about 100 unemployed graduate teachers marched through the streets of Durban to the city hall demanding that they were employed by the department. Transparent They also demanded a transparent hiring process and an end to nepotism and cronyism. Caluza said: “The worrying factor is how the department takes decisions on issues of staffing when it comes to schools. Even when the department is attempting to fill vacancies you’ll find that they develop discriminatory measures.” One of these was that they prioritised Funza Lushaka bursary recipients. She said this must not undermine students who were not part of the bursary programme and had graduated. “It must not be viewed as a sin that these children could not get the bursary as we know the majority of children applied for the bursary but because of the numbers they could not be taken,” Caluza said. The students obtained their degrees at tertiary institutions but were told they would be last when being considered for employment. “It is a serious issue that does not take into account the socio-economic standing of these qualified unemployed teachers,” she said. The union supported them as they called for fair employment processes. The high number of vacancies led to the exploitation of workers, she said. Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said ideally they would prefer to hire everybody who was qualified. But due to financial constraints this was not possible. Free Sadtu officials were free to express their opinions in public but they should also talk to the department directly if they had grievances, he said. If they talked to the department on issues they had, then together, the union and eduction department could try to find a resolution to the problems that were currently plaguing the department. Daily News