The woman, a single mom who did not want to be named, said she was now unable to cope and feared the worst while her child was at school. She worried her son was a “punching bag” for bullies and blamed the school for failing to inform her of the six alleged incidents. Recalling an incident, she said she had arrived to collect her son after school and had found him unconscious. He had apparently been assaulted by another pupil at the school. She was furious that her son was unconscious for more than 30 minutes and no one had contacted her. “Instead, the excuse was that one of the teachers was about to phone me. They had not called the ambulance. I had to. My son was rushed to the hospital and admitted overnight,” she said. This was apparently the third incident. She said her son was traumatised for months because pupils kept reminding him of his ordeal. “The school did not at any point inform me about my child being assaulted. My son would come home and tell me all the horrible things that happened to him at school. I would either be told the principal was unaware of it or that the perpetrator was given detention. Detention “Children get detention for not doing homework, not finishing classwork or making a noise in class. Bullying and assaulting others are far more serious offences that deserve punishment that would be exemplary to others,” the mother said. She said when she continued complaining about the constant bullying, the principal apparently asked her why she did not remove her child from the school if she was unhappy. She also complained that it took the school two weeks to arrange a meeting with the alleged bully’s parents and there was still no resolution on how to stop the bullying and ensure her child’s safety. The mother opened a case of assault against the alleged bully and the matter went to the Children’s Court last year. “I did not get any joy from the court as I was told the perpetrator was under age. I had expected the child to be sent for anger management classes or a social worker to be appointed to counsel the child or investigate the child’s behaviour, but none of this happened,” she said. Captain Nqobile Gwala, police spokesperson, confirmed a case of assault was opened at the Berea police station. Gwala said the case was taken to the National Prosecuting Authority for a decision and the charges were later withdrawn. The mother also wrote a letter of complaint to the Department of Education, but said she received no response “I fear that the trauma of being bullied would force my son to snap and do something bad, that is why I am calling for tougher disciplinary measures to be taken against bullies to protect victims such as my son,” she said. Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the department would investigate the parent’s allegations. Daily News