The suspended KwaZulu-Natal PEC has dropped all court appeals with Zikalala saying they took the decision in adherence to national executive committee (NEC) instructions. “The ANC (NEC) made serious decisions with regards to disputes being resolved by the courts. The view was that the appeal against the execution order should be withdrawn. In relation to the appeal on the case itself, the NEC resolved that we should not continue with the court process,” said Zikalala. In December, pro-Cyril Ramaphosa campaigners were granted an execution order instructing the PEC to vacate office while the provincial executive appealed the September ruling, nullifying the 2015 PEC. Zikalala said the withdrawal of court cases meant that the committee, which the NEC had appointed to prepare for the rerun of the provincial conference to take place in April, would be able to focus on its tasks. He said that although the PEC had dropped both appeals, it still requires the court to clarify the ruling that found it unlawful to hold the conference before the term of the sitting leadership ended. He said part of the reason the PEC withdrew the appeals was that it was wrong for ANC disputes to be resolved in court. “It is expected that all structures of the ANC will follow a decision of the NEC, given the fact that the NEC is the highest decision-making body on issues that affect structure and membership,” he said. Zikalala called on those who are unhappy with the composition of the provincial interim committee to raise their issues internally. “If there are changes that need to be made to the provincial interim committee, we will take direction from the NEC and national working committee (NWC),” said Zikalala. Lawrence Dube, who spearheaded the ANC faction that opposed the legitimacy of the Zikalala-led PEC and successfully challenged it in court, said the task team was still a bone of contention. “As long as they haven’t changed the composition of this PTT (provincial task team) we’ll be wasting time by going to the conference. “You can’t take conflicted people and put them in leadership together. It makes no sense. This PTT composition is ridiculous, it is something unthinkable." Add members He said the NEC had told them that it would recompose the PTT and add members, but he had not heard of any changes yet. He warned that if the PTT was not recomposed there would be a repeat of the November 2015 Pietermaritzburg provincial elective conference. On the previous PEC dropping its appeal to the Supreme Court of Appeals, Dube said he had not been formally informed and had only heard news reports to that extent. He said such a move would be welcomed. Daily News