Siphesihle Zamangwane Dlamini, 3, went missing during a New Year’s Eve church service in Amandawe on the South Coast. A R50 000 reward is being offered for her return. Thabsile Dlamini, Siphesihle’s mother, said: “I feel like my body is failing me. I am not coping. This torments me every single day." According to Dlamini, they were invited to a church service earlier in the day. “We got ready to leave at around 8pm. Siphesihle sat next to me. As the service was about to end, we were called up to the front of the hall to speak to other church members. It was our first time at the church. "I left Siphesihle sitting with my bag. When I came back, I saw that my bag was still on the chair but Siphesihle was not there. I know she would never go anywhere without me,” Dlamini said. She said she started to panic and called the police. “They arrived at midnight and we started searching for her. We searched in every house but could not find her,” she said. Mxolisi Ngwane, Siphesihle’s father, said they had received a flurry of calls about little girls being spotted, however none of them turned out to be Siphesihle. “You hear of these things happening to other people. You never think it will happen to you. This just feels like a dream,” Ngwane said. Work together He urged the community to continue to share images of his daughter until she was found. On the day of her disappearance, Siphesihle was wearing a pink-and-white striped dress and white shoes. Umzinto SAPS is investigating the matter. A Facebook page, Help Find Missing Siphesihle, has been created. Salamina Mpeke, a Glenmore mother whose 12-year-old son went missing last year, said no parent could be prepared for the emotions that engulf them when a child goes missing. Mpeke’s son, Bohlale was found at a shelter after 15 days. “It is natural for emotions to get involved and for the parents to blame each other. They need to work together. "They also need to be open with police and private investigators. Usually, when people and the police ask questions, people get defensive. "They must also know that it is okay to cry. If they just need a moment out, they can go into a room and cry or pray,” Mpeke said. Anyone with information is urged to contact Umzinto SAPS Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit on 039 974 9535. Daily News