Durban - With the stress that comes with road accidents, mistakes can be easily made but there are steps that can be taken to avoid making mistakes. Kirstie Haslam, partner at DSC Attorneys said it is important to know typical oversights one can avoid at the scene of an accident and in the days that follow, can help is making a successful road accident claim. Haslam gives the following 10 mistakes to avoid: Don't admit liability When you're in a state of shock, it's easy to say things you may regret later. Try and stay calm, and think before you say anything and try to limit the information you provide to the other driver to your name, contact details and the details of your insurance company. 2. Witness statements In the heat of the moment, it's easy to forget to record the names and email addresses or telephone numbers of people who saw the incident happen in real time. However, don't make this mistake. Tracking witnesses down after the event can be difficult or impossible. Try to record the details of everyone at the scene. 3. Driver details Don't forget to collect as much information as you can about the other driver and car involved in the accident. Make a note of his or her name and address, identity number, telephone numbers and email address. Also ask for the name of their insurance company, write down the car’s make, model and licence numbers. 4. Photos and videos At an accident scene, it may seem awkward to take photos – but later, this is something you might regret not doing. Good, clear visual evidence can be key to a successful road accident claim. Aim to visually record the scene of the accident and any damages and injuries. Take snaps of skid marks, road signs, traffic lights and lighting and anything else that may indicate how and why the accident happened. GoPro/Dash-cam footage can also be useful when claiming, which especially motorbike riders are using increasingly. 5. Ambient conditions Don't forget to make a note of the ambient conditions. Was it raining, misty or extremely windy? Was the road wet or slippery? Was the visibility good or bad? Existing conditions at the time of the accident can help determine the cause of the accident and associated liability. 6. SAPS A cardinal error is failing to report an accident to the South African Police Services (SAPS). All road accidents in South Africa should be reported at the nearest police station within 24 hours – or immediately in the event of serious injuries or a fatality. An accident report and case number are needed to support a road accident claim. 7. False information Don't be tempted to give the police, your insurance company or your personal injury lawyer false information. It's a criminal offence and could have serious legal consequences. 8. Social media Avoid discussing the accident, or your road accident claim, on social media platforms. Insurance companies, defence attorneys and even the Road Accident Fund (RAF) can use information you post online to dispute your claim. 9. Medical care Don't fail to have a proper medical examination. Instead, go for a full medical check-up as soon after the accident as you can. Injuries to the spine, internal organs and brain don't necessarily show symptoms straight away, but require immediate treatment and care. If you avoid going to the doctor right away and show serious symptoms later on, the RAF might argue that your injuries aren't related to the accident. 10. Professional help Don't make the mistake of thinking you can go it alone. In South Africa, the success of road accident claims against the Road Accident Fund (RAF) is highly dependent on the expertise, experience and persistence of legal professionals therefore it is advisable to seek advice from an attorney that specializes in road accident claims and who can assess your claim, help prepare supporting evidence and represent you in legal proceedings, giving you the best chance of receiving the compensation you deserve. Daily News