The club is currently in training for the Golden Games later this year, but does not have adequate training facilities. The club held its monthly meetings at the Bethel Church, which was now undergoing renovations, said Wally Lettman, the club’s spokesperson. This led to them holding their meetings at the Pufaro Road recreational grounds in Newlands East. The club has 47 members. They also train for the national Golden Games at the grounds but cannot access the changeroom facilities. Lettman, a 100m specialist, said the field was not up to standard. They meet once a month, but practise for the Games at least twice a week. “The senior citizens are forgotten, yet we worked hard in our lifetime to have all these facilities built. It is very embarrassing for these women to use the bushes around the grounds to answer the call of nature. "We were told that if we needed to use the ground, we must pay R105. Where are we going to find funds for it? The members are out of pocket just by utilising public transport to get to the grounds,” Lettman said. He felt the grounds should be fenced to prevent the ball from rolling down the embankment and into a stream. Tessa Crawford, 69, a member, said she looked forward to the monthly meetings and training sessions. “We have been friends for many years. It is a happy occasion for us, but these obstacles like having no toilets are a concern,” she said. Yvonne Chateau, 82, is one of the oldest members of the club and was upset about not having a venue or the use of the changerooms. Bernadette Ross, 69, said they were also in need of sponsors. Jennette Lortan said she was part of the provincial team that won the soccer tournament in 2016 in Pretoria. She was also a participant in the 500m brisk walk. PR councillor Shontel de Boer said she arranged for the senior citizens to use the community centre hall at no cost. She said the senior citizens added value to the community. “They socialise and have fun activities which keep them busy. They are with like-minded people with like-minded issues. They are parents and grandparents and deserve to be respected and treated well,”  De Boer said. Daily News