Provincial Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa (Fedhasa) operations manager Charles Preece said international sports events were a primary attraction. “This match will not be different. International rugby, soccer and cricket matches always have a great impact, filling beds and keeping people employed,” said Preece. “Durban should keep pursuing as many sport and economic events as possible. They are the bread and butter of the city’s business.” eThekwini Municipality tourism head Phillip Sithole said the investment in infrastructure in preparation for the 2010 Fifa World Cup from all societal sectors had transformed Durban into a truly modern, global city. “This, in effect, then gave rise to and opened Durban to the lucrative sports tourism market. Sport tourism brings in over 300 000 people to Durban annually, creating a total economic impact of over R15 billion and creating thousands of jobs every year,” Sithole said. “Durban still remains the most favoured sports centre for many of South Africa’s iconic annual sport events, such as the famous Comrades Marathon, the Vodacom Durban July, several rugby Test and super XV matches, T20 international and domestic cricket matches, Bafana Bafana and Premier Soccer League matches, and the Tour Durban and Amashova cycle races. Affirmation “Durban is home to the Sharks and Golden Arrows, and the lucrative partnership between the city and these two  national brands is affirmation that Durban will remain the sporting capital of South Africa,” he said. Sithole said the city’s leadership was confident that Durban had the expertise, capabilities and infrastructure to handle the scores of visitors expected to come to Durban during big sporting events. “The Integrated Rapid Public Transport Network is under way, and promises to offer a world-class, 21st-century road network by 2022. It will provide a faster and more efficient public transport network to the City of Durban during future events and beyond,” he said. The KZN department of Economic Development Tourism and Environmental Affairs (EDTEA) spokesperson Bongani Tembe said the provincial government valued major international sporting events. “The hosting of conferences and sporting events in the province generated R600 million of revenue, with a total macro-economic impact of R1billion,” said Tembe. Daily News