In 2016, Nxumalo survived gunshots allegedly fired by a bodyguard of an ANC leader during a branch general meeting held to nominate a candidate for the August 2016 local government elections. Nxumalo told the Moerane Commission of Inquiry investigating political killings in the province that the party needed to ensure safety for members. “We have to elect regional leaders and provincial leaders soon. In the upcoming branch general meetings, the ANC must ensure a safe and weapons-free environment,” he said. Emalahleni was disbanded in 2016 by the then Sihle Zikalala-led provincial executive, citing internal squabbles and tensions that were linked to several political killings. The province said the region had become dysfunctional and appointed an interim regional task team. But with the PEC also having been disbanded, the region will have to convene branch general meetings and nominate leadership to be elected at a provincial conference set to be held at the end of April. “Two factions existed at the time of the murders, and those factions are still in place. Comrades still do not see eye to eye on leadership preferences, and there is no telling that what happened to me may not happen again,” Nxumalo said. He said that deployees meant to oversee the process of branch general meetings should not be allowed to bring armed bodyguards as that intimidated party members and led to shootings when disagreements occurred. “I changed camps and the faction I was previously affiliated with did not take kindly to that. “On the day of the BGM, the deployee who was not coming from the province came with armed bodyguards, and one of them shot me outside the room at which we held the meeting and voted,” Nxumalo said. In the lead-up to the party’s elective conference held in Nasrec, KZN was divided between those who favoured Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma and those for Cyril Ramaphosa. “Those who supported Dlamini Zuma have not entirely accepted Cyril Ramaphosa; the divisions from then boil down to the province and then the region. “It is for that reason that I am asking for safety measures to be tightened going into branch general meetings to avoid violence in the name of the ANC,” he 
said. The ANC in KZN did not respond to requests for comment. Daily News