The Rana Road Business Watch claimed that trucks frequently queued to enter Southway Freight container depot, and as a result, blocked their entrances. Business Watch member Ebrahim Cassim complained to the metro police on several occasions about the hazards created by the trucks, but said nothing had been done. “Rana Road has only one entrance and exit. The trucks drive over the kerbs and sometimes double-park, aggravating customers and motorists. The businesses suffer financial losses as a result of the congestion. We have asked the owners to have a separate entrance for the container depot,” Cassim said. Nan Govender, Southway Freight owner, denied that the congestion was caused by trucks entering his premises. He said some of the businesses that signed the petition were also guilty of using the road to load and offload goods from trucks. An average of 40 trucks enter the container depot daily. “My equipment ensures a quick turnaround time for the trucks. The turning facility is inside my property with no hindrance to Rana Road. We are awaiting approval to lease a vacant plot on Sabjee Road to be used as a staging area,” he said. On a private Isipingo business chat group, one of the business owners threatened to barricade Rana Road with tyres if the problem was not resolved. Aidan David, Isipingo Community Police Forum chairperson, who also represents the Isipingo Rail Business Forum, said he held two meetings with the Rana Road Business Watch last week and conducted an inspection to get a non-biased view of the problem. “The businesses do not have adequate space to accommodate trucks on their premises, so they load and offload goods on the road. There is also a company that is using the road to stack containers and steel pipes outside Southway Freight,” David said. He added that heaps of sand was dumped at the entrance to the container depot, after the October floods by a business in Ally Road, adjacent to Rana Road. This was occupying one lane, which he said could be used by trucks. When the Daily News visited the area on Wednesday, a metro police unit had fined two trucks R500 each for obstructing traffic in Ally Road. Another company scrambled to move 15 containers from Rana Road where they were stacked illegally. “Plans are to clear the sand to accommodate at least 20 trucks in the interim. We also have a traffic plan module and we are working on solving the problem to avoid animosity among the business owners,” David said. Ward councillor Sunil Brijmohan said a meeting would take place this week with the various role-players. Daily News