Durban - There have been mixed responses to the cabinet President Cyril Ramaphosa announced last night. According to analysts, Ramaphosa was forced into a balancing act to appease different factions in the ANC and the tripartite alliance, while at the same time putting the focus on improving the economy. The return to cabinet of Nhlanhla Nene as finance minister and Pravin Gordhan as public enterprises minister was widely welcomed. But the appointment of a few others was slammed. They included: Bathabile Dlamini as minister in the presidency (Women and Children) and Malusi Gigaba as minister of home affairs. The expectations that Ramaphosa would shrink his cabinet did not materialise. Instead the president announced a review. “We will retain existing ministries and departments until that review is completed. Once it is completed we will then be able to make the necessary announcements,” Ramaphosa said. David Mabuza and Zweli Mkhize, who are to be sworn in as MPs in Parliament on Tuesday, were announced as the country’s deputy president and minister of co-operative governance and traditional affairs respectively. Political analyst Somadoda Fikeni said that although Ramaphosa had to compromise with several appointments, due to his marginal victory as ANC president in December, it was clear he was asserting his authority. “The political reality is that he did not have a landslide victory but we have seen him asserting his authority. This started, when Zuma was still in power over the issue of the Eskom board and the issue of the director of the National Prosecuting Authority. “Ramaphosa is taking time to manoeuvre and expand his power base progressively. He might also be looking at the legal processes, allegations of state capture as well as the promised reconfiguration of cabinet to further consolidate his hand,” Fikeni said. Praise The ruling party welcomed the new cabinet and said “we particularly commend the President for having exercised this prerogative in consultation with the national officials of the ANC and our alliance partners.” “Undoubtedly, this act of giving due regard to the resolutions of the African National Congress, in the exercise of the prerogative bestowed upon the President, lays a strong foundation for greater alignment and co-operation between the ANC and its cadres deployed in government,” said ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe. The ANC’s alliance partner, the SACP, was also full of praise for the new cabinet. “This time there was consultation within the alliance, as opposed to the previous era of what increasingly became authoritarian leadership and unilateral decision-making that undermined the alliance and ultimately the ANC,” SACP spokesman Alex Mashilo said. The SACP reiterated its strong opposition to corporate state capture and other forms of corruption and wrongdoing. “The cabinet must rigorously be seen leading South Africa in dismantling corporate state capture networks, and must selflessly serve the people exceptionally. “Organisationally, a reconfigured alliance remains crucial at all levels of government and political action,” Mashilo added. Criticism The opposition parties were more critical of Ramaphosa’s “compromise” cabinet, berating the president for not being bold in his decision-making. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said it was not a cabinet for South Africa, but a cabinet for the ANC. But he welcomed the return of Gordhan and Nene. “The appointment of Pravin Gordhan as minister of public enterprises is a sound one, and we do hope he will lead the charge in rooting out the rot within our state-owned entities (SOEs). “Nhlanhla Nene’s return as finance minister must be welcomed. Nene’s first action as finance minister must be to reverse the increase in VAT and transport levies, and introduce a range of spending cuts to plug the deficit in our public finances,” he said. EFF whip Godrich Gardee said they were treating the cabinet announcement with the contempt it deserved. “It was nothing but a balancing act. He is keeping people like Nomvula Mokonyane, who said when the rand dropped, she would pick it up, and Dlamini, who nearly threw this country into chaos over social grants. He is keeping people like Gigaba, the first port of call for the Guptas, at Home Affairs.” Gardee said the cabinet reshuffle was an insult to the people of the country. “The return of Nene is a positive, but there are more negatives than positives,” he said. The IFP’s Narend Singh said Ramaphosa’s cabinet was reflective of what had taken place at the ANC’s elective conference in December. “There’s a general appeasement here. The whole of South Africa knows he did not win with a big margin and this has come to play in his cabinet appointments. Many of the people who had opposed him have been appointed to this cabinet,” Singh said. Nqabayomzi Nkwankwa of the UDM said “this has nothing to do with South Africa; it’s about the ANC trying to balance its interests”. Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) welcomed the changes, especially the return of Nene and Gordhan. “This long-awaited cabinet reshuffle is an important step in boosting confidence in the economy to restore growth and create jobs to attend to the challenges of poverty, inequality and unemployment, especially among the youth,” said BLSA chief executive Bonang Mohale. “We now urge the President to speed up the process of reviewing the size and configuration of his cabinet and national departments so as to demonstrate his commitment to urgently needed austerity measures.” BLSA commended Ramaphosa for swiftly removing the ministers implicated in serious allegations of state capture and other forms of wrongdoing. The reshuffle saw Ramaphosa sack ministers who had alleged links to the Gupta family. They included former minister of mineral resources Mosebenzi Zwane, former minister of co-operative governance and traditional affairs Des van Rooyen, former minister of public enterprises Lynne Brown, former minister of public service and administration Faith Muthambi, former minister of police Fikile Mbalula, former minister of state security Bongani Bongo and former minister of transport Joe Maswanganyi. Rand strengthens Meanwhile, unlike with previous reshuffles, the rand took the latest in its stride, probably having factored in the reshuffle. It has been trading at a three-year high of about R11.50 to the dollar and there were no dramatic moves after Ramaphosa’s cabinet announcement. Biance Botes, of corporate treasury management at Peregrine Treasury Solutions, said the markets had anticipated the reshuffle. “The composition of cabinet resembles the pressure Ramaphosa is under to maintain a “united” party. Controversial placements such as David Mabuza as deputy president speak to the balancing act Ramaphosa is performing and indicate that, although transformed leadership has taken place, the party as a whole has not been transformed.” She said the appointment of Nene and Gordhan was good news. “These appointments to key positions will assist Ramaphosa in the clean-up of these departments following state capture and mismanagement, and thus provide support to the rand.” She believed the rand would strengthen further in the short term. Daily News