She cautioned Cele to remember that he was a political manager, hence the need for him to tread carefully. “He has a long interest and involvement in policing matters. He is a talented politician, popular with the police. However, as the national police commissioner, he made some serious mistakes, including the militarisation of the police,” De Haas said. She said the Marikana massacre was the outcome of the “shoot to kill” rhetoric, and that deaths at the hands of the police were at an all-time high during some of the years of his tenure. In August 2012, the police opened fire on a crowd of striking mineworkers at Marikana, in the North West Province.  More than 40 people were killed, including mineworkers and police officers. Miners had been protesting, demanding a wage increase at the Lonmin platinum mine. “To err is human and hopefully he (Cele) has learnt from the mistakes made. More fundamental, however, is that the key component of crime intelligence has, during the past decade, become used primarily for political instead of crime prevention purposes, leaving detective services in dire straits,” she said. De Haas said it would benefit crime fighting if Cele did not micro-manage national police  commissioner General Khehla Sitole. “He (Sitole) came up through the ranks, and it is crucial that Cele gives him every support he needs.” The minister also needed to check that police finances were properly spent. It was a matter of quality oversight, and not hands-on policing, that was required of a minister, De Haas said. Cele was previously fired as the national commissioner after former public protector Thuli Madonsela uncovered his involvement with Roux Shabangu, who had leased property to the police at inflated rates. Madonsela had labelled Cele’s conduct as unlawful, and said it had amounted to maladministration. Push While still national commissioner, Cele was also known to push his men and women in blue to be trim and fit. Dr Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies’ Crime and Justice Programme, said he was “relatively” happy with Cele’s appointment. “The public protector and a board of inquiry did not find him guilty of corruption, so that is more reason that he should be given a chance. He had been an MEC in KZN responsible for policing and  national commissioner. In that time he was well respected while he was in the police service,” Burger said. “He boosted the morale of the police when there was none, and even now he has a lot to offer.” Francois Beukman, chairperson of the police portfolio committee, called on communities to embrace and protect police officers in order to effectively fight crime. “We call on communities to share information with the police. The incoming police minister (Cele) must prioritise the safety of police officers and police stations,” Beukman said. He said there was a need to turn the focus towards intelligence-driven policing. Daily News