Because of the low conviction rate of those arrested in connection with crimes such as cable theft and burning train carriages, the executive may consider introducing preventative measures that could lead to crime scenes being cordoned off until the police have collected all the evidence before operations can resume. During Prasa’s top brass visit to Durban on Thursday after the torching of two trains at the Berea and Durban stations on Wednesday, acting group chief executive Cromet Molepo said only 5% of those arrested for such crimes were prosecuted. “These people are charged for lesser crimes, that of being in possession of stolen property. People are now making copper an industry since its prices shot up. The manual authorisation was due to attacks on the rail system and due to the process of fixing the system. We’re embarking on a programme not to erect palisade fencing but, instead, solid walls to ensure people do not penetrate platforms illegally,” Molepo said. The trains were torched by angry commuters frustrated with delays caused by a power failure that resulted in delays to train schedules. Molepo acknowledged that Prasa was not entirely free from blame as the utility employed “stone age” security and communication measures. “However, that did not give people the right to behave the way they do. In the railway system, we have privatised the security, and that was not a good idea. We are now in talks with the police to start protecting our rail infrastructure,” he said. The damage caused in this incident was estimated at R9.3 million. Rajen Haripersad, Prasa’s KZN regional head of security, said the power failure began at around 5.30pm. This left platforms 1 to 7 with no power. “We had overhead power failure because of a catenary wire that snapped. We had few platforms to channel the trains because it was peak hour at the time. All trains had to be diverted to platforms 8, 9 and 10. Trains started to flow in everywhere at the Durban station. At 7.10pm they burnt the first train in Berea and 20 minutes later the one at Durban Station followed,” he said. Haripersad said police and Prasa officials had to use force to remove their employees, including drivers, from the burning trains. “There were about six trains standing at the Durban Station and the crowd was overpowering. Fourteen fire extinguishers were used to control the fire while waiting for the fire fighters,” he said. Dr Sipho Sithole, Prasa’s group chief strategy officer, said R172 billion had been invested by the government to overhaul Prasa Rail infrastructure for the next 20 years and there was work in progress already in KZN. Daily News