Durban - Iconic isicathamiya group, Ladysmith Black Mambazo won their fifth Grammy this past weekend. The group has really become the best symbol for world music. Most importantly, they rank right up there with other proud ambassadors for South African music - like the late Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela - but also like pioneers of contemporary sounds like Black Coffee. Their style, known as isicathamiya, has its origins from the mines, where labourers who’d moved from their homes to work on mines in cities such as Johannesburg would gather over weekends and form singing groups to compete against one another. It would be a roaring affair, that featured well dressed men, and synchronised dance moves structured around ukucathama, which means tiptoeing. Joseph Shabalala, the founder of Ladysmith Black Mambazo, was the lead vocalist for many years and probably the groups most recognisable face. He started the group in 1960. Shabalala, a young farm boy turned factory worker, named the group by borrowing the name of his hometown Ladysmith, in KwaZulu Natal. The rest of the name is equally poetic, with it representing his Blackness as well as his rural roots. The Black was borrowed from the imagery of the Black ox, which is considered a fierce farm animal, and would represent the group’s strength. The word  Mambazo, derived from Mbazo which means axe, symbolised the group’s vocal prowess and precision. The name would be somewhat prophetic, with the group blazing a trail in the path to the international recognition of South African music. It was a radio broadcast in 1967 on Radio Zulu’s Cothoza Mfana with DJ Alexius Buthelezi,  that opened the door to their first recording contract. In 1972, they would sign a deal with Gallo Record Company, to release their album, Amabutho. The album received Gold Status and is believed to be the first album by a black South African musician or group to do so. There have been 59 other albums, which have earned them five Grammy awards. Their first award came from the 1987 album produced by veteran American singer-songwriter Paul Simon. Shaka Zulu was a collection of newly recorded versions of older Mambazo hits, such as "Unomathemba", "Hello My Baby" and "Lomhlaba Kawunoni". Shaka Zulu won a Grammy in 1988 for Best Traditional Folk Recording. The collaboration between Paul Simon was born from the group’s participation in Simon’s Graceland project, which birthed hits such as Homeless. Daily News