The law, signed off this week in Hong Kong, ensured that there would be a total ban on ivory trade by 2021. The ban would include a fine of more than R15 million and a maximum of 10 years in prison. Louise Joubert, founder of the SanWild Wildlife Trust, said this was a huge step in the right direction. “However, Africa urgently needs to adopt a zero-tolerance approach to poaching, especially that of elephants, rhinos and pangolins. “It is a known fact that poaching is spreading across the continent like a wildfire and governments need to address this problem. Poverty is a real issue, but wildlife crimes continue to fund criminal networks and poaching can no longer be blamed just on poverty,” Joubert said. She believed African law enforcement agencies should be given a mandate to work with international agencies to operate together, to bring international criminals and networks to book. “We will not stop the ivory trade while money derived from killing endangered animals continues to flow into Africa from the user countries, and criminal networks continue to build their wealth around the poverty gripping Africa,” Joubert said. Sustainable projects needed to be created to help people from poor communities, she said, and education was vital to show people why the trade in ivory was bad. Carla Geyser, from the Blusky Society Trust, said the ban was welcome. “It is great that places like Hong Kong are coming on board,” she said. She felt the ban would be “fantastic” for the survival of elephants. Geyser said this type of ban was also great for creating awareness. In 2016, Geyser was part of the Elephant Ignite Expedition and travelled about 16000 kilometres in Africa to raise awareness about the challenges facing elephants. She also said that syndicates had been trading in ivory for a very long time but governments had only recently started to ban the sale of ivory. She said there was a chance that the ivory trade could be driven into the black market but, hopefully, through education the dangers of ivory trade could enlighten people and  encourage them “not to go down this route”. Rob Timcke, from Flying for Rhino and Conservation, which provides air support for anti-poaching teams protecting endangered wildlife, welcomed the news. “I really hope it works,” Timcke said. The ban was very important as they saw animals being killed almost daily. He said 60 elephants last year were killed in Limpopo alone. Although welcoming the ban, Timcke said a consequence would be that the cost of ivory would sky rocket. This would make it harder for organisations like his to compete with syndicates who earn millions from poaching. He said poachers were now hunting at night using night vision goggles. However, he agreed that there was hope through education. He believed that if people were taught that rhino horn did not cure cancer and elephant tusks did not fall from elephants’ mouths like human teeth did, but were, in fact, brutally slaughtered for these items, it would go a long way towards fighting the poaching scourge. Daily News 