Vukani, a Cornubia resident, was killed last week while crossing the R102 in Phoenix, to get to his school. During construction of the Cornubia housing development, a Cornubia Project Booklet, compiled by the Department of Human Settlements and the eThekwini Municipality, stated that “arrangements to transport scholars to neighbouring schools will be available in April 2014”. However, four years later, when contacted by the Daily News about this booklet, government departments did not want to shoulder the blame, and passed the buck. Parents will now have to wait until April this year to find out if Cornubia will get scholar transport. Vukani, a Foresthaven Secondary School pupil, was one of many children from Cornubia who walked to Phoenix schools. His death was witnessed by other children, pedestrians, his close friend and his sister, who were waiting for their turn to run across the road. The speed limit is 100km/* . At present, Cornubia has one primary school which is overcrowded. There is no high school. An emotional Pearl Makhanya, Vukani’s mother, said: “Everyone here knows about the promises made for school transport and schools. The officials said we must be patient. Neighbours sympathising with me speak about the same issues.” Mbulelo Baloyi, Human Settlements and Public Works spokesperson, said: “The provision of scholar transport is a shared function between the Transport and Education departments. We are discussing this matter with them.” Education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said they were finalising contracts to provide scholar transport in the province. “The scholar transport programme is being processed and will be implemented on April 1. The new contract includes new routes which will increase the number of areas that would benefit from it. I cannot at this stage pinpoint if the Cornubia housing project is one of them,” Mahlambi said. “The budget determines if we can accommodate everyone.” There are two routes or “short cuts” pedestrians use to get to Phoenix and Mount Edgecombe. One involves crossing two lanes on either side of the R102 with a median as a buffer. Pedestrians then have to walk through a bushy footpath and scrapyards to reach Chris Hani (Old North Coast) Road. Here they have to stand on overgrown grass verges and cross over two lanes to reach Woodview Drive in Phoenix. An alternative route involves walking along Chris Hani Road which crosses above the R102 on a bridge. Pedestrians then use the footpaths to join Woodview Drive. The width of this road does not cater for pedestrians. A  longer route would be along Chris Hani Road towards Ottawa and then walking towards JG Champion (Northern Drive) into Phoenix. Transport spokesperson Kwanele Ncalane said the department was looking at the possibility of overhead pedestrian bridges and side walks. “This matter has to be discussed with the departments as to what were the terms and conditions when the housing settlement plans were approved. In the meantime, the technical head will arrange a site inspection and provide an assessment report,” Ncalane said. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, said they were awaiting feedback from the city’s Transport Authority and Human Settlements Unit. Daily News