After years of investigation, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) arrested nine members of the syndicate, suspected of operating a large-scale value-added tax (VAT) fraud scam, with a potential loss to SARS of more than R90m. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said the eight men and a woman lived in upmarket residential areas in Gauteng and in Durban. The police had conducted a search-and-seizure operation simultaneously at 12 premises on Wednesday. The accused are accountant  Ahmed Amla, 37, of Morningside; Saleem Mahomed Hoosen, 54, of Overport, Ahmed Mulla, 49, of Durban North and Shoayb Joosub, 40, of Durban North. They appeared in the Durban Commercial Crime Court on Wednesday and were released on R100 000 bail each. The five others from Gauteng, who appeared in the Pretoria Commercial Crime court, were Ridwaan Mohammed Joosab, his wife, Shazia Joosab, Mohamed Iqbal Joosab, Adnan Archad Ravat and Zuber Patel. Ridwaan and Shazia paid bail of R100 000 each. Mohamed Iqbal Joosab paid bail of R50 000 while Ravat and Patel paid R20 000 each. All nine face charges of fraud, money laundering and racketeering. The matter will be heard in the Pretoria Commercial Crime Court on February 15. They are accused of racketeering between January 2011 and December 2013. Their bail conditions stipulated that they attend all court dates until the case is finalised; surrender their passports to the investigating officer; not approach any airport, port or land border with the purpose of travelling abroad; not leave their residential addresses or the province without notifying the investigating officer; report to the Durban Central SAPS once a week; and not apply for travel documents without consent from the court. “The SARS investigation revealed that the syndicate, which included a bookkeeper in Durban and Benoni respectively, allegedly claimed R99m fraudulent refunds through 15 registered, but fictitious VAT vendors. “False VAT vendor details, with fraudulent supporting documents, were used to register the vendors,” Mulaudzi said. SARS had paid out approximately R30.6m before the scam was uncovered, Mulaudzi said, and further payments stopped. The proceeds of the scam were deposited in bank accounts from where the money was allegedly laundered through at least 35 so-called suppliers. “An AK47 and a pistol, of which the serial number had been filed off, approximately 2300 (R34 000), R250 000 in cash, several gold bars and Kruger Rands worth millions and bags full of possibly incriminating documents were seized,” Mulaudzi said. Daily News