Hours later on December 31, the frantic mother desperately searched for her daughter, but Siphesihle Zamangwane Dlamini was nowhere to be found. Now, a month after the toddler’s disappearance, a R30 000 reward has been offered for information that could lead to her safe return. The family attended a church service in Amandawe on the South Coast and Siphesihle was playing outside. A short while later, when Dlamini went to look for her, she was nowhere to be found. The children who Siphesihle played with outside the church hall, did not know where she was. According to police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, Siphesihle was last seen in the vicinity of a tavern in Slangeni Ward, not too far from the church hall. A Facebook page has been set up to raise awareness about Siphesihle’s disappearance. Carol van Tonder, chairperson and founder of the Durban North/uMhlanga Crisis Team, urged residents to join the page, “Help Find Missing Siphesihle”. Van Tonder has been providing counselling to the Dlamini family. “As a Victim Support Officer for Durban North SAPS, I am deeply saddened that she has not been found. The emotional turmoil and desperation must be immense for her parents. Late “Someone knows something. We are hoping that they will come forward. Many people are feeling their pain and wishing they could help more. Please let us find her,” she said. Private investigator, Brad Nathanson, has undertaken the search for the missing child. “Sadly, we have been appointed very late after the fact but we have put a bright light on this girl and pray that we will find her. I would be willing to do anything to get her back,” Nathanson said. He played an instrumental role in finding the man believed to be behind the kidnapping and murder of Durban North woman, Siam Lee. This week, residents were encouraged to wear pink in honour of Siphesihle. Anyone who may have information on Siphesihle’s disappearance is urged to contact the Umzinto Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit Detectives at  062778943 / 0849555887, Crime Stop on 0860010111 or their nearest police station. Daily News