Durban - Black business associations, businessmen, and women from across the province took part in the launch of the Radical Economic Transformation Conference and Expo (RETCE) at the Artizan Lounge, KwaMashu on Monday. The event was hosted by the Federation for Radical Economic Transformation (FFRET), a federation of business associations, in partnership with eThekwini Municipality. It is in preparation for the much anticipated (RETCE) taking place from February 27 – 28. Malusi Zondi, FFRET secretary said the federation intended to ensure that black businesses were recognized and included in the mainstream economy which they were excluded from for a very long time. “In many industries and aspects, black businesses have been excluded and undermined. As a forum, we are here to ensure that our local businesses benefit from all sectors,” he said. The partnership between the City and FFRET was the result of the municipality’s mandate to drive the economic transformation agenda through empowering and assisting small and emerging entrepreneurs to ensure that they participate in the mainstream economy. Thulani Nzama, Ethekwini’s acting head of the Business Support, Tourism and Markets Unit said the municipality had a number of programmes and empowerment business seminars in place to accommodate and ensure the participation of small businesses in the broader scale of the city’s economy. “The municipality has endorsed RET as a way of redressing imbalances of the past and to ensure active participation of small and emerging businesses in the economy through various key projects of the municipality,” said Nzama. He said the Municipality was concerned that young, black-owned businesses were not part of the development taking place. “It’s because of reasons such as this that the municipality has taken a decision of reviewing the procurement system that will ensure RET related challenges are addressed,” he said. Nzama added that the municipality would continue to interrogate policies that sought to unlock possibilities for black businesses within the city’s development infrastructure. FFRET chairperson, Bonga Shongwe said they were prepared to work with anyone to speed up the participation of young, black people in the economy. “We will do our best to work with various sectors including government, the private sector, and civil society to ensure that the transformation of the economy is achieved. Democracy wasn't achieved by wishful thinking and endless talks but through action. We are prepared to do the same and more for the economic freedom of our people,” he said. Daily News