Durban - Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, KZN Health MEC put on his scrubs for two days and helped treat patients in the Out-Patients Department ward at EG & Usher Memorial Hospital in Kokstad, southwest of Durban. Dhlomo did rounds at all the hospital wards and encouraged nursing staff to continue working hard to serve the public. Dhlomo encouraged mothers to breastfeed their babies for the first six months and said that there are many benefits to breastfeeding such as making babies more immune to diseases. KZN Health spokesperson Agiza Hlongwane said that between 10am and 1pm, Dhlomo had treated no fewer than 10 patients who had emergencies and had had one of them admitted, and was due to continue throughout the day and the next day.  KZN Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo speaks at EG & Usher Memorial hospital. Audio: Supplied The MEC said that due to administrative challenges, EG & Usher did not have community service officers in 2017 and there are currently only three doctors, four pharmacists, a occupational therapist, a speech therapist, a audiologist, a radiographer, a psychologist, a dentist a physiotherapist and a dietician. Dhlomo also thanked the 19 healthcare professionals who began their one year community service at the hospital two weeks ago. The healthcare professionals are part of more than 1 000 healthcare professionals who were sent on the mandatory community service programme at public health facilities in the province. Dhlomo said he is aware of shortage of healthcare personnel at the hospital but thanked the community service officers, many of whom are from urban areas, for making a sacrifice to help improve healthcare service delivery. “I had made a promise that I would visit EG & Usher Hospital Last year, this hospital was not allocated community service healthcare professionals. I’ve come to congratulate the process that has allowed us to have so many community service officers, and to commend these young professionals for coming to this hospital which is in a far-flung area. These are youngsters, and sometimes you find that they are not willing to come to such hospitals. So, it is commendable of them to have made an effort. Having done rounds at this hospital in all wards, and I’m really excited about the progress that this hospital has made. This facility is among the hospitals which are doing exceptionally well regarding maternal outcomes. They are, however, having challenges because they are on the border of KZN and the Eastern Cape, and many other patients come in from the Eastern Cape, which causes a challenges in terms of tracing them and following up on those who are on TB or HIV treatment, and also those who have delivered.”  Three community service doctors from EG & Usher Memorial hospital speaking. Audio: Supplied Hlongwane said that three community service doctors were interviewed by the Department’s Corporate Communications unit, but asked to remain anonymous. However, they said that they are pleased to be making a difference in the lives of ordinary people in a rural town. Daily News