Previous testimony before the commission suggested the poor conviction rate was a result of inadequate training. Chauke, who is responsible for training, said a lack of training was not the reason for the SAPS’ inability to make inroads into political murders. “We are doing what is supposed to be done in terms of providing police with skills. The training is continuous. It is a 15-week course. We train up to 500 members a year,” he  said. Chauke said Umlazi police station, which serves the Glebelands Hostel where killings are rampant, had many officers who had undergone “resolving crime courses”. “There was no neglecting of Umlazi because all police stations have trained individuals. I dispute the claim that members are not well trained or do not know how to do their jobs,” Chauke said. He said monitoring and evaluating teams visit training institutions to ensure training is delivered according to the standard of the organisation. Forensics “We also expose our members to international training standards and forensics. All our programmes are developed on the experience and expertise we have, and from external bodies and institutions,” he said. He also disputed that low-ranking investigators were taking over high-profile cases. “Detectives would have been employed in the police and have completed basic training.We first give them a programme that covers criminal law, criminal procedure acts, crime scene management and statement-taking to help them understand how to approach an investigation,” he said. But Major-General Pitso Ramatsoele of the SAPS detective services said it was important that crime scene management was given prominence as it played a determining factor in conviction rates. “Ensuring we investigate properly includes linking a suspect to the crime scene. We can lose the case just by not handling the crime scene properly. “We also need to present a trial-ready docket. There are several hindrances here because we sometimes wait a long time for crucial information, such as toxicology reports,” he said. The commission also probed the concept of prosecution-driven investigations, where prosecutors and detectives work together to combat criminals. Ramatsoele said they encouraged commanders to meet prosecutors. “We promote this prosecutor-guided method of investigation. If we do that, our successes will be even more. They do their best to assist us,” he said. He said an integrated approach to solving crime was key. “If you speak to prosecutors from the start, it is best, and one can make a breakthrough faster,” Ramatsoele said. Daily News