In a statement released on Monday, the region threw its weight behind the league KwaZulu-Natal secretary, Thanduxolo Sabelo, for the position of youth league president. “We recently went to the provincial congress where all KZN regions were unanimous in the leadership that we elected. “When it comes to youth league politics, we believe it is important to separate it from the ANC. “We are in synch with our branches. We do not expect a different opinion because this decision was taken collectively,” regional spokesperson Thulisa Ndlela said. Sabelo had been punted as the next leader following an endorsement by incumbent president Collen Maine last year, but it has emerged that competition is gaining momentum with treasurer-general Reggie Nkabinde and national executive committee member Ndumiso Mokako throwing their hats in the ring. Speculation has been rife that there was an anti-KZN sentiment in the party that could cost Sabelo the presidency. “I am happy it’s not certain that Thanduxolo is going to be the president of the youth league. No one must ever think they are ordained to lead the youth league. Even before the elective conference last year, we never believed it was going to be a walk in the park,” Ndlela said. Political analyst Lukhona Mnguni said it was too soon to tell if Sabelo’s prospects could be affected by political developments after the national conference. Sabelo’s chances would depend on various internal dynamics and how KZN was perceived by other provinces. Mnguni said the league in KZN had been vocal and filled a leadership vacuum left by the national body. “That could have been seen as KZN breaking ranks owing to factionalism, but if you speak to the guys here they would tell you they have made significant strides on some policy positions,” he said. Mlondi Mkhize, ANC Youth League spokesperson, said the league’s national executive committee meeting on Saturday would provide direction on the road pre-conference. He could not say exactly when the conference would be held. Daily News