Durban - A close friend of the late Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, also known as “Khwezi” to protect her identity when she accused former president Jacob Zuma of rape, described Zuma’s departure as justice for the woman who died fighting for it. Shaun Mellors – a well-known international activist, counsellor and the founder of the Global Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS (GNP+) – said Kuzwayo, a friend for 13 years, would have been consoled “to see her (alleged) perpetrator being snipped of the power that made him believe that he was above the law”. Kuzwayo laid rape charges against Zuma, who was then the deputy president of the country, in November 2005. She had visited Zuma whom she regarded as a father figure, and claimed that he had invited her to spend the night. During the trial, Zuma was supported by senior ANC leaders who gathered outside court every day of the trial. He claimed he had consensual sex with her; and to reduce the risk of HIV, took a shower afterwards. On May, 8, 2006, Zuma was acquitted by Judge Willem van der Merwe, who said that due to a lack of evidence of rape, he found that the sex was consensual. Khwezi feared for her life from the time Zuma was charged after the trial, and due to safety concerns for her life and that of her mother, she was granted asylum in the Netherlands where she lived for a while. Kuzwayo had only been back in South Africa for two years when she died on October 8, 2016 at the age of 42. “She always regretted that she had to leave the country, but she had no choice. “She never fled her country for a better life; she did so for her safety,” he said. Her rented home, which she had shared with her mother in KwaMashu, was broken into several times after she laid the charges. “She loved her country, which was probably why she and her mother decided to return as soon as they felt safe. “Unfortunately, she did not live long after that,” said Mellors. In an interview with the Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant in 2007, Kuzwayo said she wished Zuma was dead and wished he no longer existed, “to be spared seeing his face popping up in newspapers”. “I always believed that in time she was healing. We can be grateful that justice has been served. It is unfortunate she is not here. “I believe in God’s timing because he allows events to happen in his time,” said Mellors. He said Kuzwayo’s mother would be consoled by seeing Zuma resigning from power. “I hope that this would enable her to look forward to tomorrow with hope,” he said. For him, the pressure that forced Zuma to resign was bitter-sweet. Family Bunie Matlanyane Sexwale, the Kuzwayo family spokesperson, said Kuzwayo’s mother was not available for an interview. Redi Tlhabi, journalist and author of Khwezi: The Remarkable Story of Fezekile Ntsukela Kuzwayo, said on Twitter: “There is a lot that gets edited out of a book. I am re-reading Fezeka Kuzwayo’s diary during the rape trial. She oscillated between fear and optimism. May she know that #ZumaHasFallen. And most NB, that his supporters, her tormentors, are cowards who have now abandoned him,” she tweeted. Kuzwayo was the daughter of late uMkhonto weSizwe veteran Judson Kuzwayo, a friend of Zuma’s who was detained alongside him on Robben Island for 10 years. Khwezi had grown up around Zuma and other ANC veterans, and had regarded him as an “uncle”. In 1990, Khwezi was diagnosed with HIV and became an Aids activist. Meanwhile, Naledi Chirwa, the EFF Student Command (EFFSC) national spokesperson would like nothing better than for rape allegations to be looked into again. In 2016, during the announcement of the 2016 municipal election results, Chirwa and three other women staged a silent demonstration at the IEC results centre, in Pretoria, in front of Zuma as he delivered his speech. The silent protest, called #RememberKhwezi, was staged a decade after Zuma’s acquittal on the charges. Speaking yesterday, a day after Zuma tendered his resignation, Chirwa confirmed they were going to look at if, and how, they could take the matter forward. “We are hoping that justice will be served because Zuma is now an ordinary citizen. We want to get the matter started again and get assistance for the family,” she said. Chirwa said her decision was not just about Khwezi. “All young women should be treated with respect. We are going to take the matter forward. There are a lot of things that were not out there at the time. We believe that more will be revealed during investigations,” Chirwa said. People Opposing Women Abuse (Powa) welcomed the decision to consider what options were available. “Regarding sexual violence, Powa would welcome the recharging of the case as the assumption would be that there will now be proper investigation and fair prosecution. The message sent would be that nobody is above the law, and that issues affecting women are taken seriously,” said Powa official Jeanette Sera. However, Professor Stephen Tuson of the Wits Law school said the attempts by the EFF students to recharge Zuma was “a complete load of nonsense”. He said that while they were within their rights to lay a criminal charge against Zuma, he doubted that it would ever go anywhere. “It is mischievous of them,” Tuson said. “One must remember that Zuma was acquitted on the facts presented to the courts, not a technicality. Also, we have what is called double jeopardy in our legal system which means that nobody can be tried twice for the same alleged crime,” he said. Tuson said another big factor why the charge would have no merit was because Khwezi was dead. “Even if there wasn’t double jeopardy, what evidence will they bring before the court because the complainant has passed away? What evidence do they have? Nothing,” he said. Daily News