Wearing identical jackets the pair occasionally leaned forward to listen to Emily Elkington’s evidence as she was questioned by senior State advocate Cheryl Naidu. In Wellington’s assessment of Baby X’s  mother, which 
she conducted in in 2015,  she found the mother was fit to stand trial. She had conducted a 30-day mental assessment at Fort Napier Hospital and agreed with the findings of Dr Roseanne Hardy, who had conducted a private evaluation of the 31-year-old mother, that she suffered from mild intellectual disability. Elkington said she found no signs of depression. The State had called 
Elkingtion to support its version that the mother could distinguish between right and wrong. The little girl’s mother and 51-year-old grandmother have both pleaded not guilty in the Durban High Court to Baby X’s murder in their Chatsworth home in November 2014. They also pleaded not guilty to charges of child abuse, assault and sexual assault against the little girl’s two older 
siblings, who are now nine and 12. Protect The grandmother also pleaded not guilty to sexually assaulting and raping the little girl. The accused and Baby X cannot be named to protect the identity of Baby X’s siblings. The trial was adjourned in October to allow Elkington and Hardy to have a meeting to discuss their findings to present them to court. Elkington told the court on Monday that they agreed on most aspects of their findings, although she found some 
of Hardy’s findings contradictory. Hardy had told the court in August that while Baby X’s mother recognised the abuse of her children, she could not be held accountable because of her mental instability. She had told the court that although her findings agreed with that of the mental assessment conducted by Elkington, her assessment found that an injury Baby X’s mother suffered after a car accident in 2001 had caused brain damage. Control Hardy had concluded that the mother could not control her behaviour and did not know what she was doing. The mother’s defence has been that she is mentally unstable and that her mother abused her children and had bullied her to do the same. However, one of the siblings had testified that their mother tortured Baby X and tied her to the bed even when “granny was not home because she hated Baby X so much”. “In my opinion, in the act of tying up someone, one has to formulate the plan and find rope and do it. “It’s not impulsive, lashing-out behaviour. If she was bullied to do these things, her mother (the granny) was not there and would not have known if she didn’t tie up the child for the night,” said Elkington. The trial continues. Daily News