“Like all the men who work far from home, he has been away for a long time. If he decides to come back now, then it looks like he is about to retire. We, the people of his birthplace, will welcome him back like the hero that he is,” said ANC ward councillor BS Mbambo, before Zuma announced his resignation. Mbambo was speaking in his capacity as a resident of kwaNxamalala. He said Zuma was an extraordinary leader and the community would benefit greatly from his presence. “He may decide to do something else with his time; we don’t know, but we will be happy to have him back home,” Mbambo said. Other locals who spoke to the Daily News expressed anger at the prospect of Zuma leaving before the end of his term. Nzuzo Sikhakhane said he was hurt by the ANC and implored Zuma to resist being pushed out for no reason. “He must fight till the end, because even now the new leadership has not told us why the president must leave office and that is a problem,” he said. Another local, Bhozasi Ndlovu, said it was selfish of the ANC to forcefully remove Zuma and not give reasons. “He is a South African president; if the ANC don’t trust him to lead, we citizens do. Why must we not be told why they want him out?” Ndlovu asked. While some wanted Zuma to hold on, others said they were not worried about his future nor his well-being because he had already survived “worse”. “We are angry, but not worried because we know we will punish this Ramaphosa-led ANC,” Bangile Mbambo said. She said Zuma was a humble leader who cared about rural people and they were not taking kindly to him being “bullied”. “We want to know why there is this sudden urgency to remove him because there should be reasons and because there are none. We are boycotting next year’s general elections,” Mbambo said. Another resident, maKhumalo, said she did not trust the ANC after what they “did to ubaba”. “We will not vote for this ANC that humiliates its own. How can we trust them with our votes if they can’t even treat each other with dignity?” she asked. The residents said they were worried about the future of Zuma’s community programmes like the Christmas celebrations for the elderly and the annual New Year’s celebrations that brought the community together and assisted those in need. “We have children in this community that would never have thought of going to university if it had not been for the Jacob Zuma Foundation. “He brought hope and developed this community. We love him and will always be grateful for that,” maKhumalo said. Daily News