On a good day, it will take you a mere 45 minutes from uMlazi or KwaMashu to reach the Durban central business district. However, these trips have lost their smooth element as the trains tend to stop anywhere and anyhow without notice, prompting late arrivals. I have been a train commuter for about five years. In 2012, I took a train from KwaMashu to Berea station, a stone’s throw from the Durban University of Technology campus, for three months. For the other three quarters I still travelled by train, but from oThongati. That was broken by my stay at my alma mater’s residence for the next two years. I then left Durban. When I returned in April 2016, I experimented with the various transport modes. I first took taxis, which proved heavy on my pocket. While it left me in the CBD, I needed to take another taxi, an extra cost, to get me closer to work. I then opted for the bus, which also proved costly and did not leave me near to my work building. Further, the bus followed a route which made my stay in it longer. That, coupled with the many stops, made my trips physically draining. This is what led me to using the train. A month’s ticket cost about R150. That is worth an unlimited number of trips in a single day. The train system is such that a particular train is set to be at a particular station at a particular time. Unfortunately, it is not always so. The trains are rarely on time. For train commuters, it has become the norm that a train is late, anything from 10 to 40 minutes. Metrorail always announces these delays on Ukhozi FM’s current affairs and breakfast shows, with no sense of remorse, I add. A delayed train translates to one reaching the station after hurrying to be there on time, only to find that the train has yet to reach the final station before making a turn in the other direction. One then ends up spending time at the station waiting for a train that will come at a time no one really knows. Sometimes being on the train does not mean one is destination-bound. Trains tend to stop where they are not meant to stop. The strangest experience is when the train stops at a point where you cannot get off to take a taxi if you are running late. A former schoolmate once told me that she had boarded a train in oThongathi at 7am. It stopped in the middle of nowhere and she only managed to reach Berea Station at 1pm. This was supposed to be an hour’s trip. Such train delays and stoppages lead to train overcrowding. The longer the people wait, the more people get to the station. When the train arrives, they all believe they should get in because they have waited long enough. Their getting in could mean anything from shoving others to squeeze themselves in, climbing on top of the train or hanging from doors or windows. And still these overcrowded trains stop where they are not supposed to, with no announcement of why the train has stopped and when it will depart. Train commuters feel they are treated with disdain because of the cheap fare. The train burnings, which are uncalled for, have been brewing for a while because Prasa does not seem to want to get its house in order. Daily News