The policy is based on the Finland Phenomenon, which takes a fresh look at the way pupils are taught and how the overall school system is managed. The Sun Valley Group of schools, based in Cape Town, has adopted the policy. Principal John Keller is due to address a KwaZulu-Natal primary school on how the programme can work for their pupils. Speaking to the Daily News, Debbie Fortune, of Sun Valley Schools, said the school had opted for this new approach based on two things: a relaxed and happy child learns better, and play is important in a child’s life. Fortune said Sun Valley considered their school to be progressive. “We have adopted policies that are inclusive of digital devices that have progressed beyond the concept of a ‘textbook under glass’. Our teachers abide by our fundamental principles that remain a part of our philosophy.” She said the school’s principal, Gavin Keller, learned of the Finland Phenomenon during one of his trips overseas. Keller regularly visits other countries to learn more about their teaching and learning methods. Fortune said that when pupils got home from school, they did not have to deal with the stress of homework. “There are no arguments with parents about their work, the relationship between parent and child is improved with more quality time and the family is able to engage in a more creative and meaningful manner. We have found that reading has improved because of a 20-minute mandatory programme that is followed at school and at home,” she said. Fortune said this was a complete learning programme and has no limitation. “Why would we send work home to parents who have entrusted us with their children? No child comes home from school to school at home,” she said. Another KZN school, Roseway Waldorf School near Botha’s Hill, has adopted a similar ethic. The school’s Lauren McGuire said they did not give homework to pupils in the foundation phase and older pupils were given limited homework. “This is due to us strongly believing that the healthy development of the young child needs a balance between academic learning which happens during school, in the classroom where it can be supported by a teacher, and family time. “We strongly value the family unit and believe that we need to leave space in the pupil’s day for them to interact with family,” she said. McGuire said the school had found that through this approach, pupils had time to extend their interests and take up other hobbies. They return to school refreshed and excited. For some pupils, who are anxious by nature, the school found that their school-related anxiety decreased and they were able to enjoy their education more. Rudolph Steiner, founder of Waldorf, based the school’s ethos on research he had done into teaching methods. “Each Waldorf school conducts ongoing research into various teaching practices and there are several national and international conferences held each year where findings are shared and workshopped by other teachers,” McGuire said. A mother of a Grade 1 pupil, who spoke to the Daily News anonymously, said she was fed up with her son’s homework load. “He is 6 and gets home at 4pm after he has completed his extramural activity. Between eating, changing clothes and bathing, we still have homework. My son has to learn a series of daily sight words and read a reader book. He then has to do maths and English homework,” the mother of two said. “It is at about 7pm when he is done, which means he has 30 minutes to tell me about his day, play with his baby sister and go to the toilet. I still read him a bedtime story, then he says his prayer and then time is up. For goodness’ sake, he is 6 years old,” she said. The KZN Department of Education has said the no-homework policy could be something it might consider.  If you are a parent or teacher who has a view on this approach, e-mail us at dnnews@inl.co.za, or WhatsApp a short message to BackChat. Daily News