The 26-year-old man was caught  after the rock-throwing incidents from Tollgate bridge over the N3  on Saturday. According to a source, the man was identified by the victim of the second incident. The first incident took place just after 6.30am on the N3, just after Ridge Road. An hour later, a rock was thrown on to a second vehicle. According to police, the first driver was taken to the police station when the suspect for the second incident was arrested. The suspect was identified as being the same person in both instances. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said a case of malicious damage to property was being investigated by Mayville SAPS. “He will appear in court soon,” she said. The man allegedly confessed to being involved in a spate of rock-throwing incidents. “He said he had been throwing rocks from these bridges since November 2017. He stated that his motive is not robbery, but he derives personal satisfaction from damaging the  vehicles,” a police source said. The arrest follows the eThekwini Municipality’s beefing up of patrols along pedestrian bridges between Warwick Triangle and Westville. Municipal spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said Durban metro police and other law enforcement agencies, including the South African Police Service and Road Traffic Inspectorate, had come together to step up patrols along key routes and bridges. “This intervention was implemented after numerous reports that rocks and bricks were being thrown at vehicles from overhead bridges,” Mthethwa said. Deputy mayor Fawzia Peer said the patrol project was a part of a long-term solution to the problem. “The city is looking at constructing steel cages over bridges, erecting closed-circuit television cameras and improving lights on bridges. This will be subject to normal council procedures and availability of funding,” she said. Metro police have urged motorists to be observant when approaching bridges. Any suspicious activity can be reported to the municipality’s emergency call centre at 031 361 0000. Daily News