Durban - Aid is pouring in for the orphans of Edith Benson children’s home in Sherwood that was gutted during a fire on Tuesday night. Local residents and care organisations rushed to the aid of the home. Packets of blankets, bottles and nappies were seen being handed over to management at the home. Communities across the city have rallied together to collect much-needed items for the home. This after a fire ripped through the home shortly before 8pm. A total of 57 children between 3 months and 5 years old were rescued.
 
The home shares the property with the William Clark Children’s Home, where the Edith Benson children were transferred in the interim. The William Clark Children’s Home was not damaged in the fire. According to firemen at the scene, the fire spread to the roof of the building, causing it to collapse.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. A fire chief, who spoke to the Daily News, said the care worker and staff worked fast to get the children out of the facility when the fire broke out. “I must commend them for how fast they managed to get the children out. Fortunately, there were no injuries to the children,” he said. Garrith Jamieson, operations director at Rescue Care, said 57 children, aged between 3 months and 5 years, escaped injury. At this stage, the cause of the fire has not been established. Local residents and care organisations rushed to the aid of the home. Packets of blankets, bottles and nappies were seen being handed over to management at the home. Communities across the city have rallied together to collect much-needed items for the home. Anisha Ramlaul of Child Welfare Durban and Districts thanked the community for their assistance. She also commended the staff and children for how quickly they were able to evacuate the building. This, Ramlaul said, was due to ongoing evacuation training undertaken at the facility. “We would like to thank all the first respondents and members of the community for their assistance. There is a designated drop-off point at the  Musjid us Saliheen in Harris Crescent, Sherwood. The ongoing needs of further provisions will be communicated via the Child Welfare Durban and District social media,” she said. Daily News 