The king was on Sunday addressing DA leader Mmusi Maimane, who visited his Osuthu Palace in Nongoma, Zululand. He was reacting to a highlevel team led by former president Kgalema Motlanthe, which concluded after its investigation into land ownership in the country that the trust was an unconstitutional body. The trust governs traditional land in KwaZulu-Natal on behalf of the king, but Motlanthe had recommended the land should be taken over by the state. “If there is someone who wants to take land from us, we will defend it,” King Zwelithini said. The king said he understood that the abolition of the trust would lead to the land being expropriated from him without compensation. “I wish to once again place it on record that it is not in the interest of this country that Africans, in particular the Zulu people, be the subject of provocation by those in power. “I plead for honest engagement on this rather thorny issue. The sooner this is done, the better,” he said. The king said he was also opposed to the expropriation of land, which traditional leaders across the country had acquired through homelands during apartheid. Maimane had, during a ­private meeting, told the king that he was also opposed to the move to repeal the trust. The king called on Maimane to make sure that he raised the matter in Parliament. “We want an opposition party that does not shy away from addressing historical issues that require answers after 23 years of democracy,” the king said. Even though he did not want to interfere in party politics, “South Africans deserve better, from both the ruling party and opposition”. King Zwelithini also warned that any attempt to address the land issue should not disturb food security, because neighbouring countries had opened their arms to investors who were frustrated by the South African government’s stance on land expropriation without compensation. In his report, Motlanthe alleged that the Ingonyama Trust Act was a deal secretly entered into by IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi and former president FW de Klerk days before the first democratic election in 1994. He further alleged that the existence of the trust perpetuate tribalism in the country. But Buthelezi had rejected Motlanthe’s claim. Although the FW de Klerk Foundation has denied that the law was passed secretly, it said it was passed to encourage the IFP to participate in the elections. “No legislation was ever adopted in secret before April 1994 - and all legislation would have had to have been considered in accordance with parliamentary procedure of the time,” said foundation chairperson Dave Steward. He said De Klerk was “firmly opposed to expropriation of anyone’s land or property” without compensation. Daily News