Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal police's Provincial Drug Unit took nearly R400 000 worth of drugs off the streets, seized illegal cigarettes and collared several alleged drug dealers following raids across the city. Police spokesman,Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said members of the  drug unit ran enforcement operations in Chatsworth, Verulam and Phoenix areas over the past few days. He said observations were conducted at various hotspot areas and once the officers had seen drug related activities, they pounced on the suspects. "At Phoenix, police arrested a 22-year-old man who was found in possession of 2000 capsules of heroin to the street value of R60 000. He was also found in possession of an unlicensed pistol," Zwane said. He said the police officers then proceeded to Verulam to follow up on information with regards to drugs in the area. "At Wick street, they identified their target and arrested a 30-year-old man for possession of heroin and rock cocaine with a street value of R900,00. Police also recovered R4,500-00 in cash suspected to be the proceeds of drugs. The suspect will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court... While the police officers were at Chatsworth they also received information of suspects bringing dagga from the Eastern Cape province. The police officers entered the suspect’s home and found 11x50kg bags of dagga with a street value of R300 000 at Welbedacht area," Zwane said.  It was not only drugs that the officers clamped down on. They also zeroed in on the sales of illicit cigarettes and raided a house in Phoenix where R62 500 worth of illegal tobacco was seized. "The suspect fled the scene as the police arrived on the scene. He is known and will be arrested soon," Zwane said. During the early hours of Monday, he said the  Ethekwini Inner South Cluster Crime Combating Unit proceeded to Westcliff, Chatsworth where monitored a drug den. A 30-year-old woman was found in possession of 800 capsules of heroin with a street value of R10 000. She was charged and will appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court soon. The KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major General Bheki Langa applauded the commitment by the members in getting rid of drugs in the province. “I want to express my gratitude towards the community who are working in partnership with the police in adopting a zero tolerance approach towards the proliferation of drugs in society. The use of drugs is a generator of violent crimes and needs to be nipped in the bud,” he said. Daily News 