Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) has pledged to come down hard on poorly performing municipalities following a drop in the number of clean audits. According to the department, the number of clean audits decreased 11 to seven in the previous financial cycle. “The audit outcomes for 53 municipalities for 2016/2017 include: seven unqualified audits with no findings – that is clean audits; 33 unqualified audits with findings; ten qualified audits; two adverse audit opinions; and one audit disclaimer,” Nomusa Dube-Ncube, KZN MEC for Cogta said. Dube-Ncube said they are aware that Inkosi Langalibalele Municipality did not submit its annual financial statements on time. However, they have already intervened in the municipality in terms of section 139(1)b of the Constitution and a recovery plan is in place. “KZN municipalities that maintained their clean audits in 2016/2017 and therefore deserve a round of applause for their consistently hard work are Umzumbe, uMuziwabantu, Okhahlamba, King Cetshwayo district, uMhlathuze and uMhlabuyalingana. All of them have made us proud,” she said. She said what causes negative audit outcomes in 13 municipalities include slow response to improving key internal controls by senior management and the political leadership, inadequate consequences for poor performance and vacancies in key management positions in municipalities. “We are introducing a radical audit outcome strategy going forward. We vow to ensure that disciplinary actions are taken and that no salary increments or performance bonuses are paid to officials of municipalities which achieved poor audit outcomes or their councillors,” she continued. She said the department had already shown it was not afraid to intervene in poorly performing municipalities when necessary. The department now wants to see harsh consequences for poor performance and it will continue to be hands-on and will ask mayors to lead from the front. Daily News