The rand strengthened to a two-and-a-half year high and some believed it could soon reach R11.50 against the dollar. The trade union federation Cosatu, which is in an alliance with the ANC, asked that Cyril Ramaphosa not include any compromised or tainted leaders in his new cabinet. Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said these include Mineral Resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane, who has been found wanting in the strategic sector since his appointment by Zuma in September 2015, and Social Development minister Bathabile Dlamini, who has presided over the social grants crisis. Pamla added that Water and Sanitation minister Nomvula Mokonyane had overseen the bankrupting of the department and the water crisis that has engulfed the country. Public Service and Administration minister Faith Muthambi also came under fire from Cosatu, after it emerged that she leaked confidential cabinet documents to the controversial Gupta family. “The Zuma administration has been an incubator of rot,” Pamla said. Future South Africa, a political coalition of civil-society organisations, and the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse also called for the removal of those who they claimed advanced the state capture programme. Thed include Malusi Gigaba (Finance), Lynne Brown (Public Enterprises), Deputy Public Enterprises minister Ben Martins and David Mahlobo (Energy). There was also talk in some circles that SACP general secretary Blade Nzimande, former tourism minister Derek Hanekom and former finance minister Pravin Gordhan be brought back into the cabinet because they were fired for merely challenging Zuma. The third member of the tripartite alliance, the SACP also had its say over the new look cabinet. SACP first deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila said Ramaphosa should know where to “tick, fix and improve”. Julius Malema, the EFF’s commander-in-chief, said on Twitter: “Thank you fighters, stay focus (sic)”. EFF MP Floyd Shivambu tweeted: “Let the man follow (sic) on his sword” followed by an emoji of a sword, before later exclaiming “He’s gone!! Good Riddance!”. The party’s spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi tweeted the EFF’s logo with the caption: “This is the generational flag that swept the inevitable winds of change. Those who swear allegiance to it and its mission know that on Thursday is a step to an even bigger victory. Economic Freedom in our lifetime,” Ndlozi wrote. IFP MP Narend Singh said Zuma’s resignation came after unbearable pressure from all sides and within his own party, which had supported a motion of no-confidence in him. “He saved himself and his cabinet the humiliation of being asked to leave in a motion of no-confidence which definitely would have been carried today,” Singh said. “We know Jacob Zuma for a long time. He would never have gone down without a fight and he fought to the bitter end, but the pressure on him from all sides caused him to do that (resign). Removed “He would have been removed today by us in Parliament and he saved himself the embarrassment and humiliation,” Singh said. Mmusi Maimane, DA leader, said the party was rejoicing with all South Africans “as the long, painful decade of Zuma’s presidency” reached its end. “Jacob Zuma did untold harm to our country. More people are unemployed than ever before, and more people live in poverty than when he came into office. “On his watch, corruption has been allowed to flourish to the point of nearly destroying our country and completely capturing the state and prosecution system. That will forever be his shameful legacy,” said Maimane. He said the ANC’s next step should be to fire “corrupt individuals”. Maimane labelled the ruling party’s deputy president David Mabuza, secretary-general Ace Magashule and spokesperson as those deserving to get the axe from the ANC. Political analyst Daniel Silke described Zuma as a bitter man who left behind a deeply divided ANC and an economically damaged state. Silke said Zuma would be remembered for the damage he had caused to the alliance and for polarising the ANC. “He is leaving behind an organisation whose fundamentals had been severely damaged. “Ethics in government are simply a pale shadow of what they were under the Mandela and Mbeki administrations,” said Silke. He said ethics in the government were “very very low” and Zuma had damaged state institutions “through pursuing narrow political ends”. Political analyst Bukani Mngoma blamed the previous NEC for Zuma’s “defiance” saying they had used their numbers to defend him from being held accountable despite the reputational damage to the party he had caused. “I differ with his obsession of saying prove me wrong in a disciplinary inquiry. “If Mbeki had done something wrong, was he subjected to a disciplinary process? “The answer is no. Therefore, I don’t understand why he feels he needs to be subjected to DC,” said Mngoma. Daily News