The #ZumaMustGo group has threatened a national shutdown a day after their march to ANC headquarters Luthuli House on Monday. On Sunday, the group addressed the media in Gauteng on its plans for the next two days. Structures of the ruling ANC, the South African Communist Party, Mkhonto Wesizwe Military Veterans Association and the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) were said to be among the organisers of the march and the national shutdown. Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, Metro Police spokesperson, said they received a report on the planned shutdown and were ready to handle the situation if Durban citizens got involved. “We are on high alert following a report on the planned shutdown. We have put measures in place in anticipation of unruly behaviour. We will be monitoring the movements of the people very early on the day until 12pm. “All CCTV cameras will be monitored to ensure that order is restored where people become unruly,” Sewpersad said. He said people who will be blockading the roads with either rubble or overturned bins would be dealt with. All the routes going into the city would be monitored. The shutdown could affect daily activities, including teaching in schools. Kwazi Mthethwa, KwaZulu-Natal education spokesperson, said they were aware that marches of this nature had potential to disrupt the business of the day. “We don’t anticipate major disruptions though. We believe that if the strike (national shutdown) is protected, then it should not reach a level of disruption. “Whenever there are strikes, all departments are affected but we are hoping that our sector is not adversely affected. “We will monitor the situation and on Tuesday afternoon we should have details of how we were affected,” Mthethwa said. Meanwhile, Santaco has distanced itself from the planned shutdown. Thabisho Molelekwa, Santaco national spokesperson, said the organisation did not involve itself in issues of politics. “We have no say in who gets elected and who gets booted. We only engage the ANC as the ruling party on policy issues that affect our industry, and that’s where the engagement ends,” Molelekwa told the Daily News on Sunday. The SACP said it was not involved in the preparations for the march, but it did not rule out its members could be part of the proceedings. “We cannot condemn the people behind the march but our attitude is to allow the newly elected ANC leadership to handle the issue (Zuma’s removal) because we believe that they are not oblivious to the peoples’ cry,” Alex Mashilo, SACP spokesperson, said. He said they had their political bureau meeting on Friday and Saturday and the Zuma issue was discussed. “We acknowledge that one of the tasks we are facing is to dislodge the parasitic network surrounding government and the ruling party. “We will continue engaging the ANC in bilateral meetings,” he said. Daily News