Durban - Police raided the flat of a man they suspect was involved in the shooting of a Bluff resident on Monday. The Parsons family were still upset with what had happened and were still distraught about the incident. They also were not concerned about the rumours spreading in the community. On Monday friends and family gathered at the home for a prayer session. Flowers decked a room in the house. At the Ezary convenience centre on Tara Road where the shooting took place flowers were laid in the parking spot where she died. The management of the garage directed all queries to Wentworth saps. The family were still making funeral arrangements. The image of the incident could also haunt the family whose Bluff home overlooks the petrol station. Police had one suspect in the van at Wentworth police station who was arguing with police officers demanding they loosen the handcuffs on his wrists. They then left with him to his flat in Reiger Road. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The image of the incident could also haunt the family whose Bluff home overlooks the petrol station. Video: Zainul Dawood During a raid on one of the flats three police vans approached the flat and arrested a man in the parking lot. He was searched and so was his car parked underneath a carport. Police gathered up whatever evidence from the car and then handcuffed the man before leading him up a flight of stairs from the car park to his flat. Children from a nearby school  walked pass in their droves unaware of what was happening. Other smaller children played outside the flats.housewives peered from the balcony and their windows. Fifteen minutes later  a plain clothes police came out of the flats with a plastic packet in his hand accompanied by other police officers and the suspect. Police were searching for the firearm used in the killing as well as any evidence they could find. They were relying on CCTV footage from the garage to pin point any evidence. Daily News