DURBAN University of Technology vice-chancellor Professor Thandwa Mthembu says there is no contingency plan in place if the workers don’t return to work. He said the highly qualified and experienced lecturers the university has cannot be “replaceable” by anyone. If the impasse continues for the entire term, the term or even the year could be lost. Mthembu was addressing the media on the state of affairs at the institution since the beginning of the wage strike by the workers. The strike, which has forced the suspension of lecturers since last week, has been dragging for six weeks now. “Sadly we are still deadlocked after months of one on one negotiations. Many of our students come from poor and working class backgrounds and this staff strike is having a very negative effect on them and their families. We also have thousands of students who are self-players, where their parents and guardians have worked very hard to save money. Many have taken loans to register at our institution. International students, for example, have very limited time to complete their course credits and return home. This strike compromises their studies and affects our commitments and responsibilities towards our students,” Mthembu said. The current salary negotiation is deadlocked after the unions rejected the university’s final offer of a 6.5 percent increase in basic salary and a 6.5 percent increase in housing allowance. The negotiations commenced in 2017, with the unions demanding a 10 percent increase in salary, a R400 increase in housing allowance and a R9 000 once-off bonus. During the media briefing earlier, unions were toyi-toying in front of Mthembu’s chambers while down Steve Biko Road chaos erupted when police and the university fired rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse a group of students. At least one student was hit in the leg with a rubber bullet while another collapsed after asthma attack, apparently as a result of tear gas inhalation. The workers protest had subsided after handing over a memorandum to the vice chancellor. A student who did not want to be identified said they were demanding that the university resolve the strike so that lectures would resume. At this stage it’s not clear what was contained in the memorandum. Daily News