According to the ECD statistics released by Statistics SA on Tuesday, almost half of children (46%) nationally in the early childhood phase, were living in lower-income households. Teachers’ unions welcomed the statistics. They said it affirmed their call for all public schools to be made no-fee paying schools to accommodate the majority of children from poor households. According to data from the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa), as of March 2017 4.9 million children aged 0-6 years had benefited from the child support grant and 25 824 children aged 0-6 received the foster child grant. Vee Gani, the South Durban chairperson of the KZN Parents’ Association, said while children from poor households were expected to attend schools classified as quintiles 1 and 2 - no-fee paying schools - this was not the case, either because there were no schools in their communities or they were in search of better education outside their communities. “We are talking about children who cannot afford to pay school fees because the parents or caregivers are unemployed. We need the department to come to the party by zoning schools according to their poverty index, not by its infrastructure,” said Gani. According to the stats, the percentage of children in homes where none of the family was employed was the highest in the Eastern Cape (44.3%), followed by Limpopo (42.7%) and then KwaZulu-Natal (34.7%). Thirona Moodley of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) said this affirmed the need for the Department of Education to urgently intervene. She said calls to make all schools free had fallen on deaf ears for too long. Moodley said the finding that 46% of children lived with their grandparents who maintained them on a foster grant allowance was serious. So, too, was the finding that so many single mothers were collecting a child support grant. She said such financial difficulties prevented some parents from poor households from sending their children through the Early Childhood Development phase. SA Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) deputy provincial chairperson Bheki Shandu said they were eagerly waiting to see how Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana would respond to the call to take ECD seriously. Daily News