The king, speaking at the opening of the KZN legislature on Tuesday, said the Ingonyama Trust Board would assemble a team of lawyers and retired judges so that they can take this matter to the Constitutional Court. The Ingonyama Trust Act was passed on the eve of the first democratic elections in 1994. It led to the formation of the board to govern land which used to belong to the defunct KwaZulu government, on behalf of the king. A high-level panel led by former president Kgalema Motlanthe, after investigating land ownership across the country, recommended that the board was unconstitutional and that the act should be scrapped. De Vos said King Zwelithini had no legal grounds in his fight against the Parliament to defend the Ingonyama Trust Board from being disbanded. De Vos said South Africa’s courts interpreted the property section of the law very narrowly, and he would be “surprised” if the king gained any traction from the courts in his battle to keep the land. “The king is not the owner of the land in this trust. He is the custodian, and the state can take it away from his custodianship,” he said. De Vos explained that in the same way when water is found on a farm, it does not belong to the owner of the farm, and the state had the right to “take it away as such”. The king made an extraordinary appeal on Tuesday, calling on anyone who regards himself or herself as “legitimate” Zulu to each donate R5 or more for the cost of the court battle. He was addressing thousands of people, including former president Jacob Zuma, when he opened the provincial legislature in Pietermaritzburg. He said he had warned President Cyril Ramaphosa about the importance of the land to the Zulu nation. “I told him that to us Zulus the land is our father and mother, because it feeds and accommodates us. It is our blanket, because that is where we are buried when we die. The land is the body and soul of the Zulu nation,” said the king. King Zwelithini said he would negotiate with six major banks to open accounts for his people to deposit the money. “I want only R5, but those who can afford to can donate more. I want to show those who are in power that the government cannot do things without consulting us,” he said. He said he would assemble another team of judges to brief communities and civil society in the province about attacks directed at him. The recommendations had created anger among traditional leaders in the province, and hostel dwellers in Johannesburg and Durban held separate meetings last week to back the king. They claim Motlanthe did not consult with the Zulu leadership before compiling a report that had been handed to Parliament. The king also issued a veiled threat to the ANC, without mentioning the organisation 
by name, saying that if anything happened to the board, there would be consequences during the general elections next year. He said the matter, which is yet to be dealt with by the National Assembly, should be finalised before the end of the year. He warned the government against spending money, which he said should be used for service delivery, on defending the matter if he took it to court. “There is no country that can develop if it keeps spending money in courts,” he said. The king said the board, royal family and KZN House of Traditional Leaders would meet soon to discuss the matter further. “I will also call a mass meeting of the Zulu headsmen and their amakhosi. An Inkosi who does not attend will be not be a real Inkosi of my nation. “I will ask MaDube (Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube) to supply me with a list of amakhosi under her payroll so that all of them would attend. “These steps are just the beginning, because if everything fails I will call a mass meeting of the Zulu nation in and outside the province,” he said. He said he was anointed by God before birth to be the king of the Zulu nation. Economic Development MEC Sihle Zikalala, who represented Premier Willies Mchunu on Tuesday, said the provincial government did not support the move to deprive the king of his land. Daily News