Petzer, who produces the East Coast Drive with Bongani and Mags, had posted on Facebook on Saturday: “And now b***** are cheering because seven suspects were shot dead and 10 suspects were injured in a shoot-out in Ngcobo between SAPS and men believed to be behind cop killings.” He reacted to people clapping on social media and “giving each other high fives”, referring to the shooting of police officers and a soldier at the Ngcobo police station and the subsequent shoot-out between police and the alleged suspects on Friday at their hideout, the Mancoma Seven Angels Ministries Church. Petzer also questioned the guilt of these men because there was no trial. “One day you’ll be walking past a car and believed to hijacking it and then shot dead and then social media will celebrate your death,” he posted. The post was later deleted and Petzer posted an apology after several people complained on the East Coast Fans Facebook page as well as to the radio station. On Monday, the station management distanced itself from Petzer’s Facebook post and views expressed in it, saying that although the station believed in freedom of speech, it must come with responsibility and must be in line with the values of the East Coast Radio brand. Zane Derbyshire, programme manager, said after a meeting with Petzer, the station gave him a first and final warning that it would be forced to terminate his contract should he post offensive comments on social media. Derbyshire said besides the apology that Petzer posted on his Facebook page, he also apologised to management for any disrepute caused. “We took into consideration that this was the first complaint against Rory. We have accepted his apology and given him a final warning,” said Derbyshire. Listeners who had complained about his “disrespect” by calling those who were celebrating the shooting of the suspects “b*****”, were not impressed with his apology. Listeners were on Monday still reacting to the post. Delano Els said: “Seems to have missed the big fuss. It was your opinion. That’s all. Enough said.” Marzedt De Beer said: “Very simple. Don’t open your mouth until the brain is in gear.” Daily News