Speaking after the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Budget presentation discussion at the Westville campus on Tuesday, Modise said: “We can have developmental objectives and implement them. But if the minister changes, it becomes difficult to focus on the strategic objectives. We need them to stay longer,” she said. Nhlanhla Nene returns as finance minister after he was axed by former president Jacob Zuma in December 2015. The department has had three minister’s since his earlier sacking. “When there is sustainability, you know how the minister works and can work with them,” said Modise. “Treasury is an institution where a minister can come and go. However, we want them to stay longer so that we can have a plan to implement. We just need stability.” Modise said that Treasury was reviewing its zero-rated items of goods on which the recently increased value-added tax (VAT) could impact. “Fruits are zero-rated, but most poor people still cannot afford them. Do we now take the fruits out of zero-rated goods, but give it to them through feeding schemes in schools? Do we also leave sanitary towels as VAT items but then distribute them to schools where children receive feeding schemes? Balance “We have to balance either zero-rating some of the goods or distributing them through spending. There are certain goods, however, that even if you zero-rated them, the poor still cannot afford them yet they are essential then we distribute them through spending.” It had been very difficult for Treasury over the past five years, she said. “Since 2012 we had to consolidate fiscally, which means we had to reduce spending. These past several years there has not been a Budget where we add resources. We have always been reducing the resources. Now we feel that we have cut all the fat out and if we were to cut even more we are going to start drilling into the bone and the system will not be sustainable. We are hoping that this consolidation will be our last one,” she said. Modise said that the biggest challenge they had was dealing with procurement. “We do not want to be coming to the UKZN to be told by students that we are funding corruption. All we want is a system where people appreciate why they are paying their taxes and are willing to pay them. If we have a system that is viewed as corrupt, no one will be willing to pay taxes.” UKZN School of Accounting, Economics and Finance dean and head, Professor Mabutho Sibanda, said the Treasury had been supporting them over the past years. “It would be good to collaborate with them further in terms of capacity development and research. We appreciate that Treasury has a lot to do with the economy moving at a fast pace with decisions having to be made instantaneously. We need to support them with their research needs and agendas.” Daily News