The Multinational Lung Cancer Control Programme would be conducted in South Africa, Kenya, Swaziland and Tanzania and would also focus on creating awareness. UKZN said there were 1.8 million new cases of lung cancer diagnosed every year internationally. More than 58% of these were in developing countries. “Many countries lack understanding of the disease’s epidemiology, thus making it difficult to have tailored prevention strategies,” the statement said. Dr Themba Ginindza, the KwaZulu-Natal project leader of the programme, said one of the main objectives of the research was to not only help with early diagnosis, but also create awareness. In KwaZulu-Natal, research would be conducted in uMlazi, Chatsworth, Wentworth, Imbali and Sobantu. Researchers would be working with Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central and Addington hospitals. Ginindza said the lack of awareness resulted in a high number of patients going for treatment when they already had stage 3 or 4 cancer where not much could be done for them. Hafsa Amod, a nursing lecturer at UKZN, said she supported the initiative because her father and sister had died of lung cancer. Healthy Cancer is a non-communicable disease that is rife in the country. Amod said the programme would help people start healthy eating habits. “Cancer can be prevented in the early stages,” she said. The Chatsworth resident said if the project could create awareness, it would be beneficial to communities in KZN, South Africa and the world. Lorraine Govender, national advocacy co-ordinator of the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa), said they welcomed the research opportunity given by the Bristol Myers Squibb Foundation. She said this could help in public health programmes for lung cancer - one of the top five cancers in the country, which was sidelined. Govender said people often believed that lung cancer was caused by smoking, which was not always the case. “Early detection, support and palliative care are key components in treating lung cancer patients,” she said. In research led by the International Agency for Research on Cancer released this year,  South Africa had the highest cost of cancer per death among Brics countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa). Each death cost more than R1.1 million in lost work productivity. According to research conducted by the National Cancer Registry of males with lung cancer, 1436 people were diagnosed in 2009. This increased to 1766 in 2013. Daily News