Durban - One of the biggest funeral service providers has hit back at threats to prevent white and Indian business operating in townships saying they were not "owned by whites" and were willing to engage National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA). It comes after Nafupa threatened all white and Indian funeral operators that their presence in townships will not be tolerated from February. They said they would resort to violence if they had to. According to a statement sent by AVBOB, Nafupa SA had gone as far threatening to burn their competitors’ business premises, vehicles and equipment and have justified their crusade as a means to bring about “radical economic transformation". “This compelled certain companies to introduce drastic measures to ensure that they can continue with their normal business activities and to fulfil a contractual obligation to their customers,” the statement said. AVBOB has a restraining order against Nafupa SA from unlawfully preventing AVBOB’s agents from conducting business. “AVBOB’s stance is emphatic that it is not 'owned by whites', but, as a mutual assurance society, the business belongs to its members of whom 80% are Black and 94% of employees are people of colour. AVBOB’s status as a mutual assurance society enables the organisation to allocate surplus profits to its members in the form of free funeral benefits and special bonuses. AVBOB has no external shareholders that can demand dividends. Members benefit directly from successes which is evident from the R8 billion which has been allocated to members in the form of free funeral benefits and special bonuses over the past nine years,” it said. The statement also said that AVBOB was concerned that the free funeral benefits, which members had accrued over the years will be lost. The free funeral benefits, which are currently valued at almost R15 000, would be forfeited if the policyholder is forced or convinced not to use AVBOB for the funeral. “Nafupa SA has gone so far as to “advise” policyholders to cancel their policies and if this happens, the family stand to lose the proceeds of the policy. It will be a tragedy if NAFUPA SA succeeds to intimidate bereaved families to such an extent that they can no longer exercise freedom of choice when it comes to selecting a funeral service provider,” it said. AVBOB also said they have always been willing to engage with Nafupa SA in meaningful discussions to find an amicable solution to their concerns but their demands were completely unrealistic and irrational. For example, Nafupa SA demanded that AVBOB pays them to shut down their campaign, 30% of AVBOB’s annual profits and to set up fully functional funeral parlours for Nafupa SA. “AVBOB has no intention of withdrawing from townships and the rural areas. The organisation has an obligation to deliver on its brand promise, “We’re here for you”. We will do whatever is deemed necessary, and reasonably possible, to protect our staff and clients against intimidation and violence,” it said. The statement also said that AVBOB obtained an interdict on 29 January 2018, barring Nafupa SA from interfering with its normal business activities, but Nafupa SA simply ignored the ruling and continued to threaten AVBOB’s staff and clients. Moreover, on 20 February 2018, AVBOB brought another urgent application in the High Court, KwaZulu-Natal Local Division in Durban, against Nafupa SA and its president, Mr Hlengwa, for various violations of the interim court order that was granted by Judge Chetty on 29 January 2018. Nafupa SA representatives were disrupting court proceedings, but after Judge Moodley awarded her ruling in favour of AVBOB, they cried foul and argued that they had no legal representation. Daily News