Durban - Thabiso Setona, ANC ward secretary in Johannesburg was recorded kicking a woman protester while she was on the ground outside Luthuli House on Monday. His actions sparked outrage from the Commission for Gender Equality (CGE), political parties and the community. Javu Baloyi, Commission for Gender Equality (CGE) spokesperson, said the CGE was shocked that nobody went to the assistance of the "powerless and helpless woman who was being assaulted even while lying on the ground". Baloyi said they are worried there was a lack of action from the police to either stop or apprehend Setona. “The beating clearly shows we are a society that has normalised violence against the most vulnerable people of our society in this case a defenseless woman. In the year 2016 alone, a staggering 182 933 cases of assault were reported,” said Baloyi. The CGE called on the police to arrest Setona and the ANC to deal with him through their internal processes. “It will therefore clearly show that the ANC does not condone gender-based violence and members who act in the manner in which the one in the video did will be dealt with harshly,” concluded. Political parties such as the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) and the National Freedom Party (NFP) condemned the attack on the woman by Setona. The IFP were also concerned about the lack of action taken by police officers at the scene of the incident to protect the woman. Thembeni Madlopha-Mthethwa, IFPWB National Chairperson, said that images show that the incident happened in full view of the police, who did nothing to protect her. Madlopha-Mthethwa said that the behavior was disrespectful and shameful. Acts of gender-based violence concern us all and must be challenged, especially by those who think they have the privilege to ignore them. To create change, it is essential to recognise that the issue of violence against women knows no frontiers. It happens every day, in our country, in our city, and in our neighbourhood. Because violence against women concerns everyone, let’s raise awareness and step up to re-inforce acts of respect to everyone, but particularly to women and girls!” said Madlopha-Mthethwa. Madlopha-Mthethwa also called for Police Minister, Fikile Mbalula to conduct an investigation and take action against the police officers who failed to protect the woman. Sabelo Sigudu, NFP spokesperson, said the NFP is saddened by the barbaric behaviour by those who claim to defend the Luthuli House. “Even the former President of the ANC this building has been named after, will be very disappointed to hear that today (on Monday) that the very same house/building where ANC Top leadership is meeting, has become the area now which bullies and abuse women as we saw it happening today (on Monday),” said Sigudu. Sigudu also said the NFP believes that there is no amount of anger and hatred which can justify the “animalistic behaviour”. “They should be ashamed of themselves and the manner in which they behave, they don’t represent the new democratic South Africa we live in,” said Sigudu. Then Mbalula shared this on Twitter: The man seen on the images and footage kicking a woman handed himself over to the police - while police were set to get him. He is being processed at JHB Police Station. We call on people who know and have contacts of the survivor of his abusive uncultured self to assist us. pic.twitter.com/3AzWk9TANS — Min of Police: Mr Fearfokkol (@MbalulaFikile) February 5, 2018 