“During Sona, he must announce the removal of the finance minister. That man cannot be trusted and he must not deliver the Budget speech,” Malema told a media briefing on Thursday, before Ramaphosa was elected unopposed. Malema said Gigaba should not be entrusted to make the Budget speech on Wednesday. “The Budget he will present is a Budget of Jacob Zuma’s cabinet of thieving. If Ramaphosa is to preside over the budget of thieving, he has a lot to learn.” Malema said the country could not afford another day with Gigaba in the National Treasury. “We can’t allow our purse to be in the hands of Gigaba, it is up to Cyril (to do something),” the EFF leader said. Ramaphosa was elected after Jacob Zuma resigned on Wednesday night, before the the EFF-led motion of no-confidence in him, which was scheduled to be tabled on Thursday. The EFF did not participate in Ramaphosa’s election after its bid to have a debate on the dissolution of Parliament was unsuccessful. Malema pointed out that the Constitutional Court had found that Parliament did not play its role in holding Zuma accountable. “No one among us (in the House) can qualify to be the president of South Africa, if Zuma does not qualify,” he said shortly before calling for fresh elections. He insisted that his party would not legitimise another faction of the ANC into power. “Cyril does not qualify to be the president of South Africa. If he thinks so, let him hold fresh elections” Ramaphosa’s election as president was “fine”, Malema said, adding that the EFF would still accept it, regardless. “He must know that he is the president of the country that was elected by an illegitimate Parliament,” he reiterated. “We shall remind him of that all the time.” Malema was adamant that the election of Ramaphosa to the Presidency would just mean that Ramaphosa would replace Zuma’s “corruption stooges” with his own. “The recent appointment of Sifiso Dabengwa on to Eskom’s board is a worrying sign that Ramaphosa will replace Zuma’s thieves with his own thieves,” Malema added. He also pointed out that Dabengwa’s wife was the chief executive of Ramaphosa’s foundation. But he also indicated that it would not be plain sailing for Ramaphosa. “Marikana is still waiting” he said, adding that the victims of the Marikana massacre were still waiting for compensation. The EFF has on many occasions said in Parliament that Ramaphosa had blood on his hands for his role in the build-up to the massacre. At the time, Ramaphosa 
was a board member of Lonmin and had asked the authorities 
to act against the striking miners. Malema dismissed those who held the view that with Zuma gone, they (the EFF) would no longer rally against the ANC, and warned against viewing the opposition as irrelevant. “If it was not for the opposition, we would not be where we are. If you wish the opposition away, it will be the end of multi-party democracy.” Daily News