On Thursday morning, ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu told the Daily News that Ramaphosa’s election, which was initially scheduled for Friday, would now take place on Thursday. Zuma’s decision to quit, which he announced live on television just after 10pm on Wednesday, effectively cancelled the motion of no-confidence that was planned for this afternoon in the National Assembly. “The Chief Justice is available to undertake the function of officiating the election of the new president,” Mthembu said. Ramaphosa’s election would pave the way for him to deliver the State of the Nation address at 7pm tomorrow night. The much-anticipated Budget speech would now proceed as planned next Wednesday. A cabinet reshuffle is on the cards. If nothing else, Ramaphosa would need to appoint a deputy. At this stage Lindiwe Sisulu appears to be the preferred candidate. However, Ramaphosa is not expected to make any major changes at this point. Zuma’s decision to quit came after years of calls for him to go, including several failed attempts at ousting him in Parliament. Matters came to a head this week when the ANC’s national executive committee decided to recall him. But Zuma was not prepared to go quietly. He questioned the reasons for his recall in an interview with the SABC on Wednesday afternoon. Talking “My problem is that nobody has provided to me, even in the discussions that we are talking about, what have I done. I don’t think it is fair, I think it is unfair,” he said. However, later in the night, a more relaxed-looking Zuma addressed the nation from the Union Buildings. Wearing a red tie, he questioned why everyone looked so tired before breaking out into his now famous laugh. Zuma said he was not afraid of being impeached or removed through a motion of no-confidence. He remained firm that he disagreed with the ANC’s decision to recall him but, as a disciplined member of the party, would toe the line. “I don’t fear exiting political office. However, I have only asked my party to articulate my transgressions and the reason for its immediate instruction that I vacate office,” he said. He said his disagreement was aimed at protecting the rule of law and his rights. “I’m not clinging to power, I just wanted respect for the rule of law and my rights,” he said. An emotional Zuma said: “As I leave, I will continue to serve the people of South Africa as the ANC, the organisation I’ve served all of my life in.” He added he did not want the ANC to be divided over him or for lives to be lost in his name. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte welcomed the resignation and said the party wanted to save Zuma from the embarrassment of a motion of no-confidence. Duarte said they would respond to Zuma on the reasons for his recall. “While we accept the resignation of President Zuma, we reiterate that our decision to impose a recall was taken only after exhaustive discussions on the impact such a recall would have on the country, the ANC and the functioning of government,” Duarte said. “This decision provides certainty to the people of South Africa at a time when the economic and social challenges facing the country require urgent and resolute response by all sections of society.” Daily News