The organisations said under former president Jacob Zuma’s reign, the country had experienced many lows. Archbishop William Slattery, spokesperson for the Roman Catholic Church in South Africa, said he had been disappointed with the December conference because it highlighted the divisive elements in the party. The country was going through a time of political introspection over the past few months, Slattery said. He also criticised opposition parties and said their debates were about gaining political advantage and not on bread-and-butter issues like health and education which affected poor people. The DA needed to sort out its own political turmoil in Cape Town, Slattery said. The archbishop said South Africans needed to give Cyril Ramaphosa and his future administration a chance. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of Hindu Maha Sabha, said the situation was of the ANC’s own making. Ignored He said the organisation had ignored calls from civil society and the public about how the country was being run. “I am not surprised by the obstructions that the organisation is facing right now,” Trikamjee said. He believed things would improve in the future. Rubin Phillip, retired bishop of the Anglican Church, said he hoped  Zuma’s stepping down would not lead to violence. He said Zuma’s supporters who were angry should be acting with their heads and not their hearts. Phillip also said he was deeply disappointed at how Zuma, for a long time, had defied calls to step down. He said he was elated with Ramaphosa taking the helm of the ANC. He said he felt hope. During the Ash Wednesday service, Phillip said he asked church members not to give up hope, and pray fervently for the country. “Looks like it is going to be a long drawn-out struggle We need to keep our spirits up for our children and grandchildren,” Phillip said. Shaun Zagnoev, national chairperson the of SA Jewish Board of Deputies, said: “The SA Jewish Board of Deputies recognises the extensive internal process that the ANC has undertaken to ensure a smooth transition within the leadership of the party. “We South Africans are a robust nation and always rise to the occasion. We wish the new leadership wisdom and fortitude in taking our young democracy forward.” Disappointed Ahmed Mohamed, chairperson of Grey Street Mosque, said the Muslim community was disappointed with the attitude of Zuma and how he dealt with being recalled. Next year’s elections were also important because the ANC needed to regain the trust and confidence of the people. “We will be happy if there is closure and an opportunity to regroup,” Mohamed said. Daily News