Councillor Sharon Hoosen, ward 71 councillor and DA  Chief Whip, said she received complaints from residents at the Bottlebrush informal settlement in Shallcross about the attempt to remove the toilets. Hoosen said she heard the hiring of “chemical” toilets, also referred to as portable toilets, had been suspended. “Some of the 20 toilets were supposed to be removed, but I think the contractor was prevented from doing so by the residents,” she said. Hoosen said the city’s Water and Sanitation Department suspended the services of contractors after holding a meeting with them in October. They asked contractors to remove the toilets by December 1. Hoosen said there was also a dispute between the contractors and the municipality over outstanding payments, but it was resolved. “We do know that nine service providers who were sub-contracting were told to work until the end of last month. “The ward councillors were not notified that they would remove the toilets. The city is still making a decision on where it could source funds to continue the project,” Hoosen said. Decision The toilets were serviced three times a week by contractors. The decision to remove the toilets could also affect some of the informal settlements in Cato Crest, Sea Cow Lake, Umzinto and eManzimtoti North. “People are in need of ablution facilities and without notice the department decides to withdraw a vital service with an alleged misuse of a tender process. “The community is up in arms and cannot do without this important service. 
Bottlebrush informal settlement alone has a population of 11000 people,” Hoosen 
said. Tozi Mthethwa, municipal spokesperson, said that the toilets were hired from external service providers. She confirmed that the original contract expired last year. The municipality then started the procurement process for the new contract. “The new contract is in the final stages of the procurement process and has gone through the evaluation and adjudication process. “It will be awarded following the signing of appointment letters and the expiry date for the appeals period,” she said. In the interim, Mthethwa said, the municipality had a short-term contract that would lapse when the new contract was finally awarded. “The Water and Sanitation Department is not aware of any toilets being removed,” Mthethwa said. She explained that the installation of portable toilets provided an immediate 
solution, compared with 
containerised ablution facilities which took time to construct. “Ablution facilities are provided to transit camps and informal settlements where sewer reticulation infrastructure is not immediately available,” she said. Daily News