This follows the fire that destroyed the ground floor of a building at 85 Bertha Mkhize (Victoria) Street earlier this month. The building accommodated DUT students. At the time, the municipality had said it was the university’s responsibility to ensure that buildings they rented for students were in good condition. Malusi Nxumalo, DUT’s dean of students, said it was surprising that the municipality would investigate a building only after a fire broke out. He said the shortage of student accommodation should be considered. “It is shocking that the municipality would make a noise about that building only after the fire. The landlord must answer whether the right material was used in making those rooms. When we take buildings for accommodation we consider, for example, the rooftop where students could jump off and commit suicide. “If the top is open, we request the landlord barricade it. We look if there is sufficient space to study, and many other things,” Nxumalo said. He said if the municipality could not attend to all the problem buildings, then the blame could not be apportioned to the university. Enforcing “If the municipality was on track in identifying problem buildings and enforcing by-laws, we would not be talking about this. In some instances, these landlords tell us that they have made application for the compliance certificates and the applications were being processed, so you can’t then throw this at us.” The Daily News reported earlier this month that occupants of the second floor, up to the 13th floor, of the building were trapped when the fire broke out in a shop on the ground floor. After inspecting the building with a team, deputy mayor Fawzia Peer said they had uncovered “gross safety violations”. Peer, the chairperson of the city’s security and emergency services committee, said they had issued the building owner with a non-compliance notice. She said the structure was built with flammable polystyrene partitioning and there were no dedicated emergency exits. Peer this week said the building did not belong to the municipality and that the university was responsible for student accommodation. “We need to have a policy that says we don’t allow property owners to leave their buildings in a derelict state. If owners don’t listen to us, then the municipality should actually start demolishing those buildings,” Peer said. Tozi Mthethwa, municipal spokesperson, said the city would not comment on DUT’s blame apportioning on the fire. She said there were about 
95 problem buildings in the inner city. “When the problem-building by-law was introduced approximately three years ago, the city formed a multidisciplinary problem by-law enforcement team that regularly conducts blitz operations. Team “The team was comprised of metro police, electricity, urban management zone, fire and emergency services, water and sanitation, and business licensing,” she said. Not all the owners of problem buildings were known, said Mthethwa, because some of these buildings were part of deceased estates, had dysfunctional body corporates or landlords who had left the country, and had no interest in their properties. Daily News