The school’s boarders have had to bathe in cold water, and could not study in the evening or iron their uniforms. “This is ridiculous. I can’t pay thousands of rands for my child only to be told that children must endure this frustration because the electricity bill hasn’t been paid. What are they (the school) doing with the money we pay them? They only told us on Thursday via SMS about the problem,” said an angry parent, who did not want to be named. Comtech is a Section 21 school which provides boarding for pupils. It manages its own finances but is supported by the Department of Education. Day pupils pay R2500 and boarders pay R17 500 a year. “One would expect better education at the price they charge. What’s worse is that a child doesn’t set foot inside the school premises in the first term without proof that R7 500 has been paid. This amount is the ticket for entry and they can’t pay their electricity bill? This deserves an explanation,” said the irate parent. At least two pupils, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said they were given candles for light at night. “These candles do not help because as matric pupils some of us prefer to study in the evening. We can’t charge our phones and the candles have to be out as early as possible. Our fellow pupils who live in the vicinity would iron our shirts at their homes, but when the principal discovered this he told us to stop it as it was an embarrassment to the school. “What about our well-being? He told us not to tell our parents about the situation when it started because they said it would be sorted out immediately,” said the pupils. The teachers were not happy about the situation, citing concerns about the pupils not being able to study in the evening. Lessons in subjects such as chemistry and physics were affected because they needed electricity for experiments. On Wednesday it was reported that Section 21 schools owed the eThekwini  Municipality more than R80 million for electricity. Nkosinathi Shandu, the school’s principal, would not comment on the matter or on the allegations against him. Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the department acknowledged the challenges faced by the schools. He said the matter was handled at district level and discussions were in progress. Mthunzi Gumede, mayor Zandile Gumede’s spokesperson, said the mayor had called on all schools that owed the municipality to come forward. He said on Thursday the mayor had met representatives from the Pinetown and uMlazi education districts about the issue of debt. About 500 schools owe the city money and Gumede has called for an urgent meeting with the affected schools. Daily News