Yamkela Zamisa was one of a group of students who went to DUT’s administrative building to hand over a memorandum stating their dissatisfaction with the state of affairs at the institution. DUT staff are still on strike and lectures have not begun. Zamisa, 19, said as they gathered not far from the student centre at the Steve Biko campus, someone from the upper level of the building threw what she thought was a stun grenade to disperse them. This could not be independently verified. However, the Daily News witnessed a volley of rubber bullets fired and pepper spray used to disperse the students that day. “As students started to run in all directions, I was caught up with this security guard who cornered me and said I was the ringleader and that he would teach me a lesson. I was shot with a rubber bullet in the bum while I was running away. He hit me in the chest while I was lying down. I lost my breath and I thought I was going to die,” said Zamisa from her hospital bed at St Augustine’s Hospital on Monday. The second-year business and information management student said the incident left her with post-traumatic stress disorder. Assault She laid assault charges against the security guard and was weighing up other options available to handle the matter. “I’ve never experienced something like this before. I’m made to understand that things won’t be the same after this experience, and this was not necessary because no one was fighting or provoking the security. “All we wanted to do was hand over a memorandum with our concerns about the impact of the strike on lectures,” she said. Adele Hoosen, the hospital’s marketing officer, said Zamisa was admitted via the emergency / trauma unit on Thursday. “The patient was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder and is receiving treatment by a psychiatrist. Unfortunately, we cannot speculate on when the patient will be discharged or whether her studies or life in general will be affected by her condition,” Hoosen said. On the day of the incident, the university’s vice-chancellor, Professor Thandwa Mthembu, was holding a media briefing explaining the situation on the staff wage strike which has dragged on for almost a month. Attempts by a mediator to assist the parties to reach a solution have been unsuccessful. On Monday, the university said it was not aware that Zamisa was in hospital, and had no record of injuries sustained on Thursday. University spokesperson Alan Khan said: “The Durban University of Technology notes the alleged injuries, hospitalisation and accusations against the MI7 guards. The university will investigate the matter to ascertain the correctness of these allegations. Once this investigation has been concluded, DUT will then act accordingly.” Sinoxolo Mahlatshana, SA Students’ Congress deputy secretary in Durban, said the attack on students was uncalled for. She said they handed over their memorandum to the vice-chancellor but had not received feedback by Friday. “We raised our concerns about how the strike affected the students. Students have not been able to plan while some have not been able to register for residence. All we needed was clarity on how the university would handle the situation,” Mahlatshana said. Tashika Pillay, a 
Pietermaritzburg clinical psychologist, said Zamisa could be going through an acute stress reaction. She said it would take her some time to recover. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, provincial police spokesperson, said a case of assault with intent to cause 
grievous bodily harm was opened. No arrest had been made. Daily News