Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said five men entered the home pretending to look for a day-care centre. Mbhele said the family ran into a room and locked themselves in. Ashley Govender, from private security company Task Force Security, said a red VW Citi Golf with four men arrived at the premises and pressed the intercom button on the driveway. The home owner and the boy’s uncle, who did not want to be named, said the driver pretended they were there to fumigate the home. He said his eldest daughter became suspicious when the men got out the car but were not carrying any equipment. The home owner said he received a call from his domestic worker saying they were being held up. His house is on the same property as his father and brother’s, on Eden Rose Walk. His three daughters and his wife ran into one of the bedrooms and locked the door. He said they were severely traumatised when the robbers began banging on the door, insisting they open it. “They were intent on breaking the door down. My wife and children opened the window and began screaming for help. They did not have their cellphones on them. My family heard their screams and came out to investigate,” he said. The robbers then drove off. Govender said when the suspects saw a family member run out the driveway gate they assumed he was carrying a firearm. One of the robbers fired at him. The home owner said the boy was standing on the balcony, some distance away from the road, when the bullet struck him in the stomach. “He did not know he was shot. He first complained that his leg was stuck between the balustrades. “The domestic worker came to help him and discovered he was bleeding. He underwent a four-hour operation this morning (Sunday) to correct the damage done to his intestines. Doctors had to remove his gall bladder. “The bullet could not be removed,” the uncle said. Govender said the car was driven at high speed through a security checkpoint, flattening cones and sending guards scrambling  for cover. His response team followed the car but lost it on the M4 south-bound. Mbhele said oThongathi police were investigating a case of house robbery and attempted murder. No arrests have been made at this stage.  *  In a separate incident on Saturday, a one-year-old boy was knocked over by a truck in York Place, Sydenham. It is alleged the boy was inside a trucking company’s premises when the incident happened. Mbhele said he was taken to hospital where he died on arrival. The cause of the accident is unknown. The boy was buried on Saturday. Daily News