These three communities were awarded the money at the restitution post-settlement support launch held in Mount Edgecombe, north of Durban, on Monday. The Gayede/Amakhabela community received R384 000, while the Siyathokoza/Amahlongwa community got R3.7 million and Amabomvini/Eyethu community R11.4m. The grants would be administered by the SA Sugar Association (SASA) with the Gledhow and Tongaat Huletts as implementing agents. Gayede/Amakhabela Community Trust chairman Mandlakhe Dlomo said the trust had received land rights for around 10 000 hectares of land just outside Kranskop in 2004. “We saw that opting for cash instead of land rights let the persons who benefited when people were dispossessed still owning the land. The cash also runs out, while the land does not. When you work it you can produce on it for many years, and receive cash on a yearly basis, since the land produces sugar cane, timber and game reserves, which bring in cash. If you opt for the cash, you just receive payment once,” said Dlomo. “Since people have been hit hard by drought, this money will help us revive our farming. There is another part which we had set aside for sweet cane, but it could not be filled up. We will now use this money to fill it up in the prepared soil.” Siyathokoza/Amahlongwa Community Trust chairman Patrick Ntuli said the trust got rights to land next to KwaMaphumulo in 2007. The land they own has sugar cane and timber plantations. “We are very thankful to the government, despite having waited so long for this. We, however, continued to work the lands while waiting for government assistance. The money we received will go a long way in helping us buy new equipment, and also work other farms that were not in good condition, so that we can produce more and employ even more people. The rate of unemployment remains a huge problem in our country.” Kranskop’s Amabomvini/Eyethu Community Trust chairman Sazi Mhlongo said that since 2013 the trust had bought vehicles and haulage trucks to transport sugar cane from their farm to the mills. “We also have a bed & breakfast to prove that we squeeze ourselves to allow access to tourists who want to see our farms. While we have bought this equipment, we still need more to enable us to work faster. Some of the equipment there is already old. New equipment will help a lot,” Mhlongo said. SASA land reform operations manager Khetha Nzimande said the launch of the restitution post-settlement support for the three community trusts marked the cementing of long discussions held with the KZN Commission on Restitution of Land Rights. “As an industry we obviously want to make sure that the farms that have been returned through land reform are supported, so that they continue to provide cane to our milling companies,” said Nzimande. “Hence, we thought that it would be good to be pro-active in engaging the government to provide that support so that at least cane is available in a sustainable manner. We also felt it was important that where we have provided training, because we have trained some of the communities, we are asking that funds should follow so that the people who have been trained can put their skills to good use” KZN provincial head for the KZN Commission on Restitution of Land Rights advocate Bheki Mbili said this launch was significant to them and the benefiting communities. “We have a relationship with these communities spanning 15 years. They lodged successful claims which we settled bet-ween 2004 and 2007, acquiring massive pieces of land for them. Economic activity on this land includes sugar cane farming, and timber, with one community being in beef farming,” explained  Mbili. Daily News