Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said threats of turning to the court were expected as trust between factions in the province was minimal. Another political storm that may be brewing in the province, he said, was whether the pro-Zuma faction may now be the disgruntled side as “pleasing one side may have angered the other”. “It is just a matter of keeping the peace, building on unity and ensuring everyone is happy. That is not an easy task and the build-up to the conference may be an unsettling one,” he said. The ANC provincial task team (PTT), led by convener Mike Mabuyakhulu and coordinator Sihle Zikalala, signed a memorandum of agreement with disgruntled members of three regions that led to the latter withdrawing their court application last Thursday. Following the success of their discussions and negotiations, the task team resolved to hold the Provincial Conference from 19 to 21 July. No venue has been confirmed as yet. The groups were locked in intense negotiations last week after aggrieved members from the Moses Mabhida, Lower South Coast and Harry Gwala regions interdicted the conference in June raising concerns over the planning processes leading up to the event. They were due back in court on Thursday but resolved the matter outside of court. Speaking to Independent Media on condition of anonymity yesterday, some members from the aggrieved factions said although negotiations went well, they were now waiting to see that all promises were kept. One member said they were pleased with negotiations but wanted to see action on the agreements made. “We just have to trust that everything we discussed will be upheld and honoured. We want to see the changes and if things were just decided on to make us happy for the moment, then we will return to court,” said one of the members from the disgruntled regions. Khumalo said holding a successful and inclusive provincial conference all came down to whether each side held up their end of the bargain and those who were not happy with the outcomes of the discussions kept their cool until after the conference was held. Daily News