It became apparent on Tuesday that the honeymoon was over between the parties as the forums alleged that Gumede and Mondli Mthembu, the city’s human settlements and infrastructure committee chairperson, were interfering with waste collection tenders to benefit preferred companies. “You can’t speak radical economic transformation and not implement it. The mayor is selling us out by interfering with the refuse collection tender. We have not been paid for two months (May and June) and we have not signed a new three-year contract which should be commencing this month. “This is because the two (Gumede and Mthembu) are using their political muscle to increase the number of subcontractors to 400 in the north, south and inner west areas and we refused to be dragged into that because the companies they want to bring in are ghost companies. Increasing the subcontractors to this number would spell disaster for all of us,” said a subcontractor, speaking on condition of anonymity. Another subcontractor also blamed Gumede for the impasse. He alleged that the root cause behind contractors not being paid was because Gumede was trying to do away with subcontractors and instead have “her own people” benefit from tenders. “I do not understand the mayor’s sudden change of heart regarding RET. She appeared to be its champion but now she has shown her true colours. Rubbish in uMlazi is ours to collect - that is our responsibility and it provides jobs for people, and now she wants to take that away,” he said. The subcontractors brought waste collection services to a standstill yesterday in Isipingo, Cato Manor, uMlazi and Umbumbulu, among other areas. According to the forums, the bone of contention was the failure to pay for services rendered for the past two months, as well as the proposed increase in the number of subcontractors. Each subcontractor gets paid R24000 a month, which would drop if their number was increased. In March, during the disciplinary hearing of suspended eThekwini Municipality deputy head of supply chain management Zandile Sithole, members of the federation vowed to defend Gumede, whom they described as the champion of radical economic transformation, from what they said was an onslaught from its enemies. Malusi Zondi, president of the Federation for Radical Economic Transformation which is affiliated to Delangokubona, said talk of contractors being unhappy with Gumede was “politics” among contractors. “Every person will have their own thoughts regarding these issues and I can’t say everyone shares those same thoughts,” Zondi said. “We are not focused on matters that have to do with politics. Our aim is to empower black businesses and black people in general.” During the executive committee meeting yesterday, Gumede said the relationship between the main contractor and subcontractor did not fall within the city’s scope. “We are transparent and will inform the public about these developments. However, the implementation aspect - the ‘how part’ - lies with officials. So I ask officials to please deal with this aspect on the administrative side of things,” she said. Mthembu said he was not bothered by falling out of favour with the forum. He warned journalists to be “careful” of being “misled”. “These people want to be paid exaggerated fees for collecting illegally dumped refuse. We have said they should weigh the refuse collected and claim in cubic metres, but they have refused. We asked them to justify the amounts. “If we have fallen out of favour with them for standing for the truth, then so be it,” Mthembu said. Daily News