Durban - Two men accused of gunning down the chairperson of the African National Congress Youth League in Durban at the weekend appeared in the Umlazi Magistrate's Court on Monday. Appearing before a packed courtroom, Mfanafuthi Zulu, 29 and Andile Zulu, 25 were not asked to plead and the case against them was remanded until July 30. They have been charged with the murder of  Bongani Usher Mkhize, 25 who was shot dead in Yose Drive, V Section on Saturday. Police said the 29-year-old suspected shooter handed himself over to police shortly after the murder. A short while later, another 24-year-old man was arrested by police. Early on Monday, at least 200 people, many wearing ANC regalia toyi-toyied outside the court where the men were appearing. Mkhize was returning from the ANC provincial Conference which was held at Durban University of Technology when he was gunned down. He was the chairperson at the TVET college in Durban. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Many of those who gathered at the court were students from the college. They demanded that the court not give the men bail. The shooting took place on the third and final day of the ANC's provincial conference, which was hosted in Durban. Commenting on the murder at the time, the newly-elected provincial chairperson, Sihle Zikalala, welcomed the arrests. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Mkhize was described as a "very dedicated and promising young leader". ANCYL provincial secretary, Thanduxolo Sabelo, said while the motive of the murder is yet to be established, the league was not ruling out the possibility that it could be politically motivated. Daily News