The plan seeks to reinforce the city’s commitment to the implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve equitable representation across all levels, and the employment equity principle to eliminate unfair discrimination. This, it says, would ensure a workforce that reflected the province’s economically-active population. According to a report of the plan endorsed by the Executive Committee (Exco) last week, the city was looking at filling 866 top, senior management and professionally qualified positions, with 455 of these reserved for African males. The remaining 411 are reserved for Indian, coloured and white males. The total number of posts in these categories was 1587, with 721 reserved for women in the designated races. The report indicated that an analysis into employment equity confirmed that women (particularly African) and people with disabilities remained significantly under-represented at most occupational levels in the city. Further analysis indicated that Indian males were over-represented at top, senior and professional management levels, and that African males were over-represented at the semi-skilled and unskilled levels. DA eThekwini caucus leader Nicole Graham said it was key to the city’s success that more people had jobs, but was sceptical of the formula used. “We are concerned that the rigid formulae used becomes exclusionary. We need to ensure that skilled, experienced people remain working at eThekwini Municipality and can be promoted and rewarded for good work. The DA has also objected to the city using the statistics of economically active people in the province, rather than the city,” she said. Graham said the act allowed the use of national or regional statistics, and the city was not compelled to use provincial statistics. “This is significant because there is a much higher concentration of Indian and coloured people in Durban than there are in KZN as a whole. This means that these groups appear to be over-represented when the city applies the provincial statistics, but not using the statistics of the municipality. As a result, Indian and coloured people lose out unfairly. The DA put a motion to council to try to amend this, but it was voted down by the ANC.” The 2014-2018 plan expired on June 30. It missed female representation targets in the top management (9), senior management (1) and senior qualified (1) categories. IFP exco member Mdu Nkosi said they abstained from the vote because of the dispute over the use of provincial stats. “We abstained because we believe the formation is not equitable in that Indians are second in getting the three categories of senior positions. Another issue is that there tends to be deployment of cadres in these positions and that’s exactly what got us to where we are today, with incompetency and questionable contractual decisions,” he said. The EFF’s Bawinile Dlamini said they had issues with available posts not being signed off by managers. “HR would identify positions, but when it comes to finalising appointments, managers disappear or delay signing off, which can only mean that the posts are reserved for identified individuals.” Dumisile Nene, deputy city manager for corporate and human resources, said: “In order to determine if organisations were compliant in terms of the EE Act, in regards to achieving a diverse workforce, a comparison should be done between the provincial economically-active population, which serves as a benchmark for a diverse workforce, and the current status of an organisation. “The city’s strategic focus should be on the engagement of African females and people with disabilities in order to achieve a diverse and equitable workforce, which in turn will result in compliance with the act. “The biggest shortfalls are in the under-representation of African females and people with disabilities. “This does not mean we are recruiting individuals without suitable qualifications and experience. eThekwini municipality will continue to ensure that the employment equity legislation is applied in a correct manner and will ensure that it will address areas of concern,” Nene said. Daily News