Durban: The eThekwini Municipality has condemned the recent killing of 12 people who were attending a funeral in KwaZulu-Natal at the weekend. Addressing the executive committee meeting sitting at the city hall on Tuesday, Mayor Zandile Gumede said the killings have left the province with a “bitter taste”. “We condemn it and hope that our police will make arrests. I urge the religious community to pray for the end of violence in our province. The incident of placing of bombs in the public areas such as shopping mall must be strongly condemned. I am aware that the premier and national government are closely looking into the issue and we are glad that nothing major has happened,” Gumede said. She noted the recent disruption of refuse collection in uMlazi, KwaMakhutha, Mbumbulu, Isipingo, Folweni and Cato Manor. “This is due to a payment dispute between the main contractors and sub-contractors. The relationship between the main contractor and sub-contractor does not fall within the scope of the City. However, as a caring city, we are really concerned and we hope the city manager will give an explanation to the public. It is important that we go out on the radio and media and inform the public. This issue is a concern, especially on the south and we need to ensure that these disruptions come to an end,” she said. Gumede also touched on the events leading up to the coming 10th BRICS Summit. The summit will be held from 25th to 27th July 2018 in Johannesburg. “This year’s summit will be a crucial milestone, as it marks a decade of BRICS cooperation. We have been participating in a number of BRICS side events and all of them were a huge success. We would like to appreciate our national government, office of the premier and provincial government and all our city for ensuring success for all these events. We also appreciate our deputy mayor for representing us in many of them and other councillors,” she said. She said the city was confident that the 10th BRICS Summit would be strategic to unlock some of the answers to our current socio-economic challenges. Daily News