Durban - Disgruntled South African Post Office workers downed tools over working conditions and salary increases bringing operations to scores of post offices around KwaZulu-Natal to a standstill. The strike comes at a time when thousands of social grant beneficiaries are flocking to post offices for the new Sassa cards. The Communications Workers Union confirmed that its members had gone strike after salary demands were not met by the employer. On Tuesday morning staff at the Durmail regional hub set alight tyres and tree branches outside the entrances while police and a private security company looked on. A Post Office worker and shop steward for the CMW who spoke on conditions of anonymity said they did not receive a salary increase in two years, there was inadequate lighting inside the warehouse, no control of birds, no toilet paper or cleaning staff at the facility. "The government has increased its collection fees from VAT but has not increased our salaries. The public always complained of the poor service they receive but little do they realise how frustrated and underpaid staff members are," he said. Other staff complained about having to clean the toilets at the Durmail branch in Durban since the cleaning company services were terminated. "In spite of all the situation, the staff still remained loyal because we have to put on the table. Enough is enough. What we do not understand is how did the company fork out money for a private security guard service?" he said. Anthea Seafield, head of Human Capital Management in the Post Office said they were in talks with trade unions in the Post Office to start with salary negotiations. "Employees at Post Office facilities are required to do cleaning themselves as a cost-cutting measure.  This measure will remain in place until the Post Office’s cash flow situation changes significantly. This is a national arrangement. Staff clean the entire premises," Seafield said. "We have a national plan in place to ensure that Post Office facilities comply with the Occupational Health and Safety Act requirements. The Post Office will continue to play an increasing role in the distribution of government services to the people.  The current project to with Sassa is just one example," Seafield said. Daily News