Durban - From picking up litter and plastic on Durban beaches, to donating much needed school shoes and stationery to underprivileged school children, people from all walks of life in came together to do good for at least 67 minutes to honour the legacy of former president Nelson Mandela. Celebrated each year on July 18 - Mandela's birthday - Mandela Day calls on every person to make the world a better place by either donating of their time or finances to causes that bring about change. This year's event comes on the centenary of Mandela's birth. Here is how some corporates and individuals celebrated Mandela Day on Durban: The Daily News and Sanlam The Daily News teamed up with Sanlam and the Daily News Milk Fund to donate shoes, stationery, books and instant porridge to the pupils of Dukemini Primary School in KwaMashu. The school shoes, in particular, were personal donations from employees at Sanlam who had adopted a pupil in need of the shoes. About 20 pupils from different grades received the shoes with a little note from the person who had bought them. Nwabisa Mpondo the key account specialist from Sanlam said the donation is in line with the blue ladder project which assists 25 schools around KwaZulu Natal.  “We started by renovating the toilets for the pupils leading up to today, then our employees chose a pupil from a list provided by the school for pupils who needed school shoes,” said Mpondo. The chairperson of the School's Governing body, Khohlwa Zulu said he was humbled by the gifts. “This is exactly what Mandela would have wanted, these children aren’t from the happiest backgrounds so for them to be shown love like this will stick with them for a long time,” said Zulu. He encouraged other people to spend the day giving back to those in need. The principle Fikile Ngubande expressed her gratitude saying she was so glad her pupils would have shoes to wear to school and new books to read. Durban Mayor and MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Durban Mayor, Zandile Gumede and MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nomusa Dube-Ncube spent the day in the city centre attending the "crime and grime". The activities started at the park opposite Truro House and proceeded along Margaret Mncadi Avenue and ended at Albert Park According to the Mayor, the city hoped to use the occasion to showcase their achievements. The activities started at the park opposite Truro House, proceeded along Margaret Mncadi Avenue and ended at Albert Park. Shoprite Group The Shoprite Group staff spent the day cleaning the beach in Durban. The staff collected several bags of litter and plastic. According to Shoprite, the event not only was to commemorate Mandela Day but was part of the group's effort at staging Africa’s biggest cleanup at which over 6 000 people in nine countries who were expected to participate in almost 500 events to remove waste from communities.  In doing so Shoprite hoped to launch a movement of active citizens who act for change by cleaning and keeping clean public areas. Plastic waste is putting the environment under considerable pressure with the equivalent of a garbage truck of plastic being dumped into our oceans every minute, the company said in a statement. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health chose the KZN Children’s Hospital as part of their Mandela Day commemoration.  MEC for health in KZN, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo and department officials spent their time undertaking actvities such as cleaning, gardening, painting and health screening. Dhlomo also bought 50 bricks priced at R100 each, which will help in building a six-storey building that is part of the renovations to the KZN Children’s Hospital. The KwaZulu-Natal Children’s Hospital was known as the Addington Children’s Hospital was opened in 1931 for all races but racial divisions forced its closure in the 1980s. It is currently undergoing an extensive revamp. The first building of the Children’s Hospital was built and reopened in July 2013, which includes a centre for HIV-positive teenagers.  Ushaka Marine World The uShaka Marine World was hoping to make 5 000 sandwiches by 2pm for Mandela Day which will help feed underprivileged people in the Durban greater area. In addition, 100 children from the  St Vincent Children’s Home, Mariannhill spent the day at the theme park. They were treated to breakfast courtesy of Wimpy and received school shoes donated by Ntenga Foundation. After lunch uShaka CEO Dr Stella Khumalo together with her team, visited the Jabulani South Help Centre in Mariannhill which forms part of a critical outreach programme. Pick n Pay and FoodForward SA The Pick n Pay & FoodForward SA did a Mandela Day Food Drive which was launched last Friday and invited consumers to donate non-perishable food items in any of the 500 participating Pick n Pay stores nationwide. In association with suppliers, 14 staple products were sold at or below cost over the weekend. Customers could also make a cash donation at the till point, or volunteer their time to engage and educate shoppers about the food drive. As of 12pm on Wednesday, 132 tonnes of food from the collection weekend had been weighed – equating to 528 000 meals. This is up from last year’s collection of 130 tonnes and will climb still further as not all food has been collected. Over 6 000 volunteers participated in the six packing events across the country in Cape Town, Johannesburg, Durban, Port Elizabeth, Bloemfontein and Rustenburg. Over eight hours, volunteers donated 67 minutes of their time to sort the donated items into food parcels. These meals will be distributed to FoodForward SA’s 600 beneficiary organisations which range from support groups, old age homes and schools to shelters and youth or skills development programmes. Daily News    