Durban - In recent months a number of violent public protests reported in South Africa - including in KZN - resulted in traffic being disrupted, roads blockaded and in some cases passing motorists attacked. On Monday morning, drivers were stranded after residents took to the streets to protest about service delivery issues in the Chatsworth suburb of Chatsworth. Read: Tensions run high in Shallcross protest In view of this Eugene Herbert of MasterDrive - an advanced driver training company with a core focus on defensive driver training - issued a statement offering tips on what motorists can do to best prepare for and protect themselves during protests. "There are many protests that seek to disrupt traffic rather than cause harm to any motorists or their cars. In the other instances, however, drivers need to know what to do when they are caught up in a violent protest or strike," he said. In KZN two trucks were torched with protesters blockading of the N2 between Mtubatuba and Hluhluwe during service delivery protest action on 19 June. On the same day, in Amandawe on the KZN south coast, residents barricaded Dududu Road with burning tyres and rocks. Police said some of the protesters hurled stones at passing vehicles and at police. On 21 June around 100 truck drivers blockaded the road on Van Reenen's Pass causing the route to be closed until the next day. After some trucks and a train were damaged during the protests, 62 drivers were charged with public violence and obstructing traffic. Herbert offered these tips on what motorists can do to better prepare and safeguard themselves during times of strike or protest action on the roads: Keep track of planned strikes. If one is due to cross your route, rather go another way. Listen to the news or check social media as you prepare for work in the morning to learn about any unplanned protests. Drive looking 12 seconds ahead of you so that you can see any potential unrest before it is at your window. Get into the habit of looking for hazards on the road. This includes people on the sides of the road and on bridges. This will give you extra time to take evasive action where necessary. If you are in traffic as a result of a protest, ensure you have identified an escape route which you can take if things turn violent. Never block yourself in when in protest traffic. Stay in your car unless your safety is threatened and you cannot escape the situation in the car. Be ready to exit your car quickly by unbuckling your seat belt if you are stationary. Do not engage with protesters in a negative way. If you are forced to get away from an area quickly, remain calm. Taking aggressive evasive action that does not account for other drivers or people on the road could be more dangerous than acting more calmly and slower. If police have blocked off an area, listen to them and rather find an alternative route. If police are not present, call them for assistance. Have emergency contact numbers pre-programmed into your phone. Trying to remember a number in an emergency wastes valuable time. Also keep someone posted on where you are and what is happening. “The objective is to avoid or escape the situation as quickly as possible. Never let a potentially dangerous situation catch you by surprise or block yourself in when things can turn violent. Winter in South Africa is also industrial action (season). Strike season is a reality for South Africans and we should always be prepared,” said Herbert. Daily News