Durban - KZN locals are in for more than ever before at this year’s East Coast Radio House & Garden Show. Over and above the expected 10 exciting days jam-packed with the latest in absolutely anything to do with the home, a series of once-off Pop-Ups are guaranteed to make this year’s show, taking place at the Durban Exhibition Centre from 29 June to 8 July, even more memorable than ever. With firm emphasis on the uniqueness of every family, this year the show is themed Home is Where the Heart is; emphasising personal functionality, timeless trends and comfort. Understanding that every family and household has a different definition of the ideal home, based on their unique interests and hobbies, the show aims to cater to all the interests with an eclectic mix of activities. Back by popular demand is the KZN Travel & Adventure Show, a Pop-Up celebration of life aimed at creating memory-making experiences with family and friends, from Thursday, 5 to Sunday, 8 July. Explore and discover destinations, venues, resorts, travel operators and the best deals on packages to create your future adventures. “One of my favourite quotes is: We travel not to escape life. But for life not to escape us. The KZN Travel & Adventure Show is all about celebrating life with loved-ones by creating the holiday or journey of your dreams,” says Show Director, Cairey Baxter-Bruce. A first for KZN, Geekville & the Durban Gaming Expo Pop-Up will be making a splash for gamers and comic fans young and old from Thursday, 5 to Saturday, 7 July. Get ready for the ultimate three-day, action-packed experience including a 100-man LAN gaming setup, competitions and exciting prizes. The East Coast Radio House & Garden Show will also be highlighting the growing eccentric, “geek” community by incorporating an impressive list of activities, themed apparel and merchandise, cosplay competitions, card games and more. “Visitors will be transported to Lara Croft’s Mayan Jungle; including an escape room, medieval fighting demonstrations, rubix cube challenges and plenty more activities to entice anyone interested in the geek culture,” says Baxter-Bruce. Be sure to diarise the dates of the East Coast Radio House & Garden Show’s pop-up events, taking place for a limited time only, to make sure you don’t miss out! The East Coast Radio House & Garden Show, supported by Durban Tourism, takes place from 29 June to 8 July at the Durban Exhibition Centre, it’s worth visiting more than once to ensure you get the most value out Durban’s most anticipated décor and design event. Tickets are available online from iTickets. For further information visit www.housegardenshow.co.za. Daily News