However, teachers’ unions are divided on the latest policy. Representing parents, the National Association of School Governing Bodies (NSGB) has proposed that all new teachers wanting to enter the system, but who have criminal records, be barred from doing so, no matter how minor their offence. Matakanye Matakanya, the NSGB general secretary, said they welcomed the vetting of new teachers, saying it was the first step in cleaning up the system. He said having a criminal record and still being allowed to teach children did not send out a good message to pupils. “A criminal record is a criminal record, whether it is for shoplifting or a more serious crime. Sace should be careful when making a decision to be lenient to those with minor crime records because at the end of the day, it is still a criminal record,” said Matakanya. Sace spokesperson Themba Ndhlovu said the council registered about 20000 teachers on an annual basis, from 25 accredited universities around the country, and from next year they would be required to produce proof that they did not have criminal records. Ndhlovu said Sace was under pressure from society to vet teachers and it was looking at ways to do this. He said anyone with a criminal record would be examined by a panel which would determine if they were sufficiently rehabilitated. At the same time it would be a learning curve for Sace to establish whether the same system would work if they wanted to vet teachers who were already registered and teaching. “We are still discussing effective ways to vet teachers who are already on the system. As custodians of the education profession, we want the professional standard of our teachers to be excellent,” he said. The policy has gained support in many quarters by those who believe it could be a solution to the problem of sexual offences. In addition, because Sace was experiencing glitches in gaining access to the Department of Justice’s National Register for Sexual Offences, the new policy has been hailed as a good idea. Thirona Moodley, spokesperson for the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa, said while the policy was good in principle, she did not agree that the teachers had to obtain the police clearances themselves. She also questioned the effectiveness of the exercise when not all criminals were arrested or convicted. “The problem of teachers having relationships with pupils is the biggest problem we have at our schools. Some never get arrested or convicted for sexual offences, although they are sex predators. We welcome the idea behind this policy, but more needs to be done to protect our children. We need to find processes that work,” said Moodley. Allen Thompson of the National Teachers’ Union said it should not be the teachers’ responsibility to obtain a police clearance. “Sace is treating teachers like criminals. If Sace wants to double-check a teacher’s criminal status, it should be the one to get it, not the teacher. We are not going to accept this. Scelo Isaac Bhengu, president of the Educators’ Union of South Africa, said they felt that Sace invested more efforts in crucifying teachers instead of improving education. “We are not sure where we stand with Sace, whether it is the employers’ wing or the teachers’. Each teacher has R15 deducted monthly to pay Sace, but we find that the same people who survive on teachers’ coffers act as the court and the prison for teachers,” said Bhengu. Daily News