Durban - Residents of the Lansdowne Complex in Austerville, Wentworth, fear for their safety because their poorly- constructed homes are apparently on the brink of collapse. In addition, residents claim that mould and rat infestation have resulted in various illnesses. Last week the residents, who form part of the housing committee in the complex, told the Daily News that in 2010 eThekwini Municipality had sold them a dream of a better life to persuade them to move into a new complex - which turned out to be a nightmare. According to residents, the complex, which houses 128 families, was constructed from rhino board and the duplexes are on stilts which have now started listing. There are cracks in the walls and floors, all the buildings leak, geysers are broken and the ceilings and bathrooms are covered in mould. Debbie Peters, a resident who also sits on the housing committee for the ward, said she was tired of all the issues in Lansdowne complex. “Since moving in here in 2010 after being forcefully moved from the barracks, this place has been falling apart,” Peters said. “People that were healthy when they got here are now falling sick regularly,” she added. Last week, residents were further incensed when the municipality’s Human Settlements Department served them what seemed to be eviction letters. The letters were served to eight families before residents chased the officials away. Residents allege that when they were first moved to the complex, they were assured that they would not have to pay rent. Now they have been told that they owe up to R100 000 in outstanding rental fees. Ward councillor Aubrey Snyman said he believed the letters were just a threat from the municipality and he did not believe they would act on it.Some people say their housing units have been condemned but they continue to live there because they have nowhere to go. The residents complained that the municipality only did patch work when something broke and nothing was fixed permanently. Often they were forced to do the repairs out of their own pockets but few families could afford this. One resident, Allan Holmes, said they did not necessarily have an issue with paying rent but they refused to pay for such damaged property. eThekwini Municipality’s acting Head of Communications Mandla Nsele said Lansdowne was a rental housing project so rent had to be paid by tenants and the letters sent to them were reminders of their lease agreement to pay rent. “These are not eviction notices but letters. Evictions are only instituted by way of a court order,” said Nsele. He added that the only way the council could continue maintaining the property was if tenants paid rent. On the issues with the structure of the building, Nsele said, “Province conducted an assessment of the structure of this project via the NHBRC, and confirmed that the structure was structurally safe. However, the report was not handed over to the municipality.” Daily News