Durban - At least eight people were killed and 26 others were injured by criminal gangs who followed them shortly after they withdrew large amounts of cash from banks or ATM machines, the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) revealed on Wednesday. The incidents occured over an 18 month period between 2017 and June 2018 this year Sabric said. And while incidents of people being robbed shortly after drawing large amounts of cash from banks decreased by 33% this year compared to the same period last year, the Sabric warned people withdrawing large amounts of cash to be vigilant as figures released show that R21 million was stolen from bank clients during the first six months of the year. "Incidents from 2016 to 2017 increased by 4%," Sabric said in a statement. "However, from January to June 2018, there was a 33% decrease when compared to the same period in 2017, with 478 and 709 incidents respectively. Bank client cash losses for 2018 from January to June amounted to just over R21 million, which was a decrease of 5% from the same period in 2017". Kalyani Pillay CEO of Sabric said their strong partnerships with the South African Police Service and the Banking Industry had contributed to this decrease in incidents. "We will continue to leverage on these partnerships to support investigations, and ensure that perpetrators are brought to book. We are grateful to the SAPS and the Banks for their continued support in the fight against these criminals,” she said. According to Sabric the two most prevalent methods employed by criminals is to follow victims out of bank branch after they withdraw their cash - which comprises the majority of cases - or follow them after they withdraw money from an ATM. "In both these cases, criminals follow the victim to their residence, place of work or any other place where it is easy to rob them. In the case of bank branches, 'spotters' still operate and communicate the victims’ description to accomplices who wait outside the bank. Small business owners are also at risk, particularly when drawing cash to pay weekly wages. While the banks don’t suffer the financial loss, they are nevertheless very concerned about the safety of their clients. In most robberies, robbers are armed and will resort to violence if the victim tries to resist," Sabric said. The centre said associated robberies were not limited to urban areas, but also occur in rural towns across South Africa. Gauteng showed the highest number of incidents (843) for 2017 at 58%, and was followed by KwaZulu-Natal, Western Cape, Mpumalanga, North West, Eastern Cape, Limpopo, Free State and Northern Cape. According to incidents reported to Sabric between 2015 and January 2018, 52 stokvel robbery incidents were also reported. “It is very distressing that bank clients, who are the victims of stokvel and associated robberies are often injured or even killed during these incidents, which is why we urge them to find safer ways to transact, such as internet transfers or mobile banking, instead of carrying large amounts of cash,” Pillay said. Sabric urged bank clients to protect themselves, and reduce the risk of becoming a victim. Here are tips from Sabric to protect yourself from falling victim: Tips for Individuals   Tips for Businesses   Tips for Stokvel Groupings  