Both women were still devastated and trying to come to terms with their tragic loss - and worried Moyane’s children would carry a grudge against their father’s killers. On Tuesday, Judge Xolile Ntshulana convicted three men of Moyane’s murder and the attempted murder of his partner, Sergeant Jabu Precious Jojisa. Sabelo Mkhize, 28, Lindokuhle Mchunu, 21, and Sboniso Khubisa, 22, were also found guilty of kidnapping and robbery. They were acquitted on the charge of possession of a firearm and ammunition, while Mkhize was found guilty of an additional charge of robbery relating to a firearm which he admitted to have stolen from his grandfather. It matched the cartridges found at the scene. Jojisa and Moyane were lured into an ambush at the Namibia Informal Settlement in Inanda after the trio went to the police station on September 22, 2015, and sought help from the police to serve a protection order at a house in the area. When they got there, the police officers were disarmed, stripped of their uniforms, bundled into the back of the police van and shot. Jojisa survived by escaping from the back of the police van. Moyane died at the scene. Jojisa was taken to uMhlanga Hospital where she spent more than a month recovering. In court on Wednesday, Moyane’s wife, Lihle, and his elderly mother, Ntombikayise, said they had survived on Moyane’s income because Lihle was unemployed and Ntombikayise was a pensioner. Lihle described her husband of two years as a loving man and a good provider. She said their relationship spanned 10 years and they were looking forward to a happy family life with their daughter and his three children from previous relationships. “We had already registered the children aged 3,11, 14 and 16 at local schools and were ready to relocate from Mandeni, but he was stolen from us,”she said. She wished the children could find peace with what had happened and live normal lives. “I do not want them to have the grudge they have against their father’s killers with them through life. I am afraid of what they might do should they happen to come across them in future,”she said. She hoped her husband’s killers would rot in jail. His distraught mother spoke softly from the witness stand about how she had enjoyed the fruits of having her son in her life. “He would drive home to deliver a load full of groceries and everything I needed. He knew that I love meat and he used to bring lots of it. I now have to eat what is cheap to survive. I also have to take care of his one child who is staying with me. His other children I used to take care of have since moved to stay with their mothers,” she said. At times she struggled to speak as tears poured down her face. Inanda residents and members of the two victims’ families packed the court yesterday holding placards with messages against police killings. Daily News