Durban - Tributes are pouring in for Shaun Herbert, a sound engineer with a befitting portfolio of musical work who died in his home on Saturday His friend, Don Clarke writing on his Facebook page said he got a message from a friend who lives in New Zealand to say that his businesses partner, friend and band-mate of many years had died. "Shaun and I had been estranged for the past 20 years, but prior to that we walked a long musical road together, building up what was C&G Studios in Durban, a public recording facility incorporating a few labels and a publishing business which ended its life in 1999 under the name Awesome Sound," he wrote on Herberts Facebook page. "Well Shaun my brother,  your life ended. Too soon I must add, but fly well into the great beyond my friend. We made some good music together and a lot of bad decisions, but enjoyed some great experiences along the way," Clarke added. He went on to describe Herbert as a fine drummer and keyboard player. "I will not forget you. My only regret is that I didn’t see you one more time. See you on the other side," Clarke wrote. Herbert had a professional audio recording studio H&H and was regarded as the King of Kings in SA Sound Engineering. On his Facebook page, Herbert's portfolio was impressive. He recorded and mastered 480 albums and singles, as well as 2 600 radio spots and Jingles/audio for TV Ads, including audio for 3 Leon Schuster movies. He did Recordings in the Opera Theatre at the Playhouse also managed and refurbished both recording studios in the Playhouse. He resigned from the Playhouse in 2012. The Daily News was unable to reach a family member for comment. Herbert held a Grade 7 Trinity College London Music Diploma (1979) as well as Sound Engineering and  Acoustology from Berkley College/UCLA (1982). Others who paid tribute to him where Carol Wessels‎ who wrote that the world has lost an amazing musician. "Thank u for sharing your love for music with us. Having spent time with you watching you put our son Daniel Wessels album together at the playhouse your enthusiasm and pride in your work was infectious and we had a blast. I know u are now doing musical creations in heaven. Fly free, my friend. — feeling sad," Wessels wrote. Annalise Jones‎ wrote: "Herbert and I know that you going to be sadly missed but I also know that you will shine down from heaven on all those that you have known on your path. May the Almighty strengthen those that weak for having lost a legend in the music industry. Your spirit will live on Rip Shaun Herbert". Daily News