Durban - Angry contractors dumped rubbish on the N2 near Isipingo on Monday over non-payment from the eThekwini Municipality for their services. The contractors, aligned to the Delangokubona Business Forum (DBF) were given contracts to collect rubbish in uMlazi. Gaddafi Sibiya a businessman from the DBF said the contractors were tired of not being paid by the municipality. He alleged that the contractors had been told that their services would no longer be needed because the municipality had no funds to pay them. “We will be shutting down the road until the municipality explains to us why we have not been paid and why there are no funds,” said Sibiya. He added that they would continue dumping the rubbish all over the city since the municipality wants to do all the work themselves.“They do not want us to collect the dirt so they will have to do that themselves,” said Sibiya. Malusi Zondi of the DBF said these acts were being committed by businessmen from different places not necessarily all aligned to the DBF. “It is not fair to say it is the Delangokubona people doing this, we solve issues at a high level when people cannot sort their issues out between themselves but we cannot be blamed for the rubbish as some of the businessmen doing this do not belong to our forum,” said Zondi. The contractors later went to City Hall where they tried to meet with city officials. Police were able to get them to move. Metro Police Spokesperson Senior superintendent Parboo Sewpersad confirmed the dumping of the rubbish on the N2 saying it was members of the Delangokubona who had started at the Durban Solid Waste (DSW) port trying to disrupt the workers there. He said the police would be trying their best to stop the men before they dump their rubbish. “We are trying to catch these guys before they can cause anymore issues,” said Sewpersad. In a statement on Monday, the municipality said that they were experiencing disruption in the refuse collection service in some parts of the southern areas. "Affected areas are Umlazi, Folweni, Cato Manor, Mayville, Bonella, Chesterville, Cato Crest, KwaMakhutha and surroundings. Discussions between the employees, Cleansing and Solid Waste management, and contractors are currently underway. The City apologizes for the inconvenience caused," the statement said. Daily News