Science, Technology and Innovations Minister, Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane,  said a panel would be established to help South Africa migrate from research ideas and technology to commercialised outputs. The process has to be driven by the youth, and the department wanted to ensure that young entrepreneurs looking for opportunities would be given support. “We want to create new industries and this will be driven by young people because they understand technology and they have the ability,” Kubayi-Ngubane, 40, said. The National Research Foundation has already been approached to assist research students from disadvantaged backgrounds who sometimes had to sleep in their university laboratories, because they could not afford to travel home. She said science and technology had to be inclusive so that it could be relevant and not perpetuate past disparities. Speaking on the sidelines of the sixth BRICS Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) ministerial meeting in Durban, Kubayi-Ngubane said the fourth industrial revolution should not be seen as a threat to job security. She said while some jobs would become redundant, many more would be created. While robots could dispense money in banks they could not explain matters to people. On the other hand, robotics could help mining companies dig much deeper underground than humans could, she explained. Kubayi-Ngubane said the gathering in Durban gave BRICS countries a chance to learn from each other and explore areas of co-operation. “For South Africa, it is an opportunity to see what we can learn from them and partner with them, as well as develop and improve our research in the country.” She said reports from the World Bank and other global economic institutions showed that most of the BRICS countries were far ahead in terms of science and technology. However, even though South Africa spent far less than 1% of its GDP on this sector (China spends 2%), it was not considered a “small” player in BRICS because “we carry the continent on our shoulders”. In addition, South Africa’s Square Kilometre Array - the world’s largest telescope - was proof of the country’s abilities. South African scientists had also travelled to Brazil to assist that country’s government in a major vaccination drive against the Zika virus. Kubayi-Ngubane said next month biotechnology companies from India would visit South Africa to attend the BIO Africa conference at the invitation of her department. Later this year, during a state visit by Chinese President Xi Jinping, South Africa and China were expected to launch a joint science research centre and research fund. Both countries would contribute to the fund. The research centre would possibly be hosted by the University of Pretoria, Wits University or the Innovations Hub in Pretoria. BRICS is made up of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. President Cyril Ramaphosa is hosting the 10th BRICS Summit in Gauteng next month. The theme is “BRICS in Africa: Collaboration for Inclusive Growth and Shared Prosperity in the 4th Industrial Revolution”. Daily News