Durban - A four-month-old baby was one of twelve people that lost their lives on Durban's roads over the month-end weekend. There were six different collisions reported to the media over the weekend. On Monday, four people died when a minibus taxi crashed on the N2 near the oThongati Toll Plaza. Shawn Herbst, Netcare 911 paramedics spokesperson, said the driver of a mini-bus taxi lost control resulting in the vehicle veering off the road and rolling down an embankment. He said two people were left in a critical condition while others sustained mild injuries. Paul Herbst, IPSS medical rescue spokesperson, said the taxi was travelling from a church event towards Ballito. In Chatsworth, twenty-three people were taken to hospital after three vehicles and a minibus taxi collided on the M1 Higginson Highway over the N2 Bridge. Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care Paramedics spokesperson said when they arrived on the scene it was chaotic. Jamieson said he did not know how the collision began. Two trucks collided on the M1 Richmond Road next to the N3 on Monday.  Reports from the scene indicate that the driver of a truck lost control clipping another heavy motor vehicle as the truck rolled down an embankment. "The driver of the truck was mechanically entrapped and the "Jaws of Life" had to be used to free the patient from the wreck. The patient was treated on scene and transported to hospital," Herbst said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. There was also a collision on the N3 near the New England road offramp in Scottsville Pietermaritzburg involving a truck and four cars. Four people sustained injuries and were treated on scene before being transported to hospital. On Sunday, a 30-year-old woman died on the M13 freeway before the Hillcrest off-ramp.  Jamieson said a bakkie came through the centre median from the Durban-bound carriageway and collided with two vehicles. According to a Facebook post on the Upper Highway uncut the deceased had been on her way to visit her ailing 90-year old grandmother who is 90 years in hospital. SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the driver of the bakkie had allegedly lost control of the car and drove into two others, killing one of the drivers. The 23-year-old bakkie driver was taken to a hospital. “Hillcrest police are investigating a case of culpable homicide,” said Mbhele. Another collision, on the N2 freeway near the Mandeni tollgate on Saturday, led to the death of a 34-year-old woman. A female driver had lost control of her vehicle and crashed into an oncoming vehicle, killing the 34-year-old woman. Three others were injured. Mbhele confirmed the incident, saying the Mandeni police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. In Verulam, three people lost their lives when the car they were travelling in veered out of control and crashed on Saturday. On Friday, four members of the Khan family, from Clairwood, died in an accident on the corner of Dr Yusuf Dadoo (Grey) and Anton Lembede (Smith) streets while taking their daughter, who was having an epileptic attack, to hospital. Daily News