Durban - The eThekwini Municipality is going ahead with plans to spend R2.3 million to rebrand itself. According to a progress report tabled at an executive committee meeting at city hall on Tuesday, the money would be used on a media campaign calling for proposals, a competition prize, professional finalisation of the logo and rollout to all formats as well the production of the branding manual and branding materials. If all goes according to plan, the rebranding should be finalised by December 2020. According to the report the city plans to spend:   The tabled report stated that council approved a report on the review of the eThekwini Municipality brand on 28 June 2017 where authority was granted to City Manager Sipho Nzuza to embark on a rebranding process and to establish a project team to ensure implementation. The report said Nzuza has since appointed a project team, led by the Deputy City Manager of Governance Sipho Cele, to embark on a process to review the municipal branding. The report noted that the rebranding exercise is scheduled to take place over six months with the implementation of the new brand taking place over three years. In a statement, the city said that as part of intensive stakeholder engagement and to help evaluate public input, the task team will set up two focus group. The first group will comprise of city officials, religious leaders and business people. The second focus group will consist of members of the executive committee and councillors from the Governance and Human Resources committee. The political focus group, the report states, will also serve as an oversight committee. The external consultation process will see the project team interact with Brand South Africa, hold focus group discussions with the Durban Chamber of Commerce, Durban Business Coalition, Minara Chamber, youth formations, non-profit organisations, non-governmental organisations, Amakhosi and other relevant formations. Radio programmes will also be used to solicit feedback, the city said. DA councillor, Heinz De Boer who sits on the city’s executive committee said that a rebranding exercise should not be among the city’s top priorities. “It is a nice to have. What we should have is more of a focus on service delivery. We have done a lot of oversight visits, especially to township areas and service delivery is of a disgraceful standard particularly when it comes to sanitation and water. When one faces this kind of service delivery challenges the focus should be in rectifying those challenges and not on changing the branding and the logo and the other nice to haves,” he said. Chairperson of the Governance and Human Resources Committee Barbara Fortein welcomed the report saying it was appraising the executive committee of the plan going forward. “We have discussed the merits of rebranding and this is a plan of action,” she said. Deputy City Manager of Economic Development and Planning Phillip Sithole said rebranding is not just about a logo. “Rebranding also looks at the issue of the destination itself. The rebranding exercise will look at eThekwini Municipality as well as the Durban as a City separately. We are learning from other cities both inside and outside South Africa who have embarked on rebranding exercises,” said Sithole. EThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede welcomed the report saying it clearly states what will happen with the rebranding exercise going forward including the vital component of external consultation. “This is not just a logo, it is a brand which will serve to further attract investors. We will consolidate and have one image for the city,” she said. Daily News