Mozzie and Zippy cabs, which have about 50 years of operating experience between them, wound down their businesses recently because of dwindling support caused by the rise of e-hailing apps like Uber. Last week Peter Lehman, a director at both taxi companies, made a presentation at the Competition Commission inquiry into the public transport sector in Durban. “I sit here defeated,” he said. A despondent Lehman said in its heyday Mozzie cabs did a thousand trips a week, had a fleet of about 43 cabs and employed about 150 staff, ranging from drivers to call centre agents, and people who washed the cars. Zippy, which had about 10 cars and employed about 40 people in various capacities, had just sold their last car to pay people their retrenchment packages, he said. Lehman said there were various attempts to rescue the businesses which included launching their own e-hailing app. “We as Mozzie cabs have no issue with e-hailing apps,” he said. Lehman however believed that taxis like those of Uber should be subjected to the same stringent requirements that applied to metered taxis. He said they had been in negotiations with Uber and Taxify about working together, but nothing had ever materialised from the discussions. A big factor for them was the difference between running costs of their businesses and that of the e-hailing apps, he said. Lehman gave the example of how providing a service would cost about R13 a kilometre for them, whereas running costs of taxis like Uber were about R7 per kilometre, which made it very difficult to compete with. The KwaZulu-Natal Transport Department also made representations at the hearings. The department’s Sibusiso Ntuli said the tension between Uber and metered taxis was a ticking time bomb in the province. He said they were happy that they were able to identify the tension before it exploded so they could deal with it. There were, however, challenges, one of them being that Uber taxis were extremely difficult to identify in public as they were not marked. The other was that the proposed amendment to the National Land Transport Act recognised e-hailing apps, but did little to regulate them. Ntuli also pointed out that many metered taxi operators were “straddling” both services. Metro police’s Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said it was difficult to monitor Uber vehicles as they were not marked and legislation was still not clear about them. In a statement, Uber spokesperson Samantha Allenberg said the company offered people new options. “We believe in open and constructive dialogue with everyone and we are always eager to engage on our vision of the future, and how our products and services are both pro-competitive and essential to tomorrow’s smart and efficient transport systems.” The more choices they had the better off people were, Allenberg said. “The competition that Uber has introduced has also encouraged innovation by existing platforms. Metered Taxis across the country are now using e-hail apps to dispatch taxis in a more intelligent manner,” she said. Daily News