“We insisted that black women be empowered,” Gold Circle’s chairperson, Dr Phumla Mnganga, told the Daily News. She said they had made an effort to get many small, black-women-owned businesses involved in the hospitality side of the event. Gold Circle was recently the recipient of a gender empowerment award in the travel and hospitality industry, said Mnganga. She said great strides had been made in empowering women throughout the group. However, one woman who is unlikely to benefit this year is model and entrepreneur Shashi Naidoo. She was recently dumped as an official service provider after making controversial statements about Palestine. Her social media posts went viral, causing outrage across the country and pitting pro-Palestinian supporters against those who are pro-Israel. Mnganga said that while Gold Circle was the host of the event, they had many service providers. Naidoo was hired by one of these companies and not directly by Gold Circle. She said they only became aware that she had been contracted for the event when the controversy came to light. “Her comments were unfortunate and regrettable We took the heat for it, in terms of people objecting, but it wasn’t really us,” said Mnganga. She said the July was a big event and Gold Circle did not know every person who would be involved. “Similarly, we consider ourselves to be a good corporate citizen and consider ourselves to have certain values and ethics. So anyone who does not comply with those values and ethics - we will take a firm view.” An Event Impact Assessment report compiled by Grant Thornton Research last year showed that the Vodacom Durban July drew 50000 people, of which 61% were from KwaZulu-Natal, 36% from the rest of the country and 3% from abroad. The study found that 40% of visitors were aged between 25 and 34, and 35% were between 35 and 44. The total direct spend of all visitors to the event, including event organisers and the government, was R94.9 million. This resulted in a contribution of R159.8m to the city’s gross domestic product. Daily News