Durban - About 100 unemployed graduates - some dressed in their robes - took to the streets of Durban in a protest march to raise awareness about their lack of employment. The graduates came from various universities in Durban. As they marched down Dr Pixley ka Seme (West) Street towards the City Hall, they carried placards with words such as "internship then what" and "we are not lazy, we are unemployed". At City Hall, the unemployed graduates were to deliver a memorandum to Mayor Zandile Gumede. Issues outlined in the memorandum include the issue with internships. One of the leaders of the march, Nkululeko Ndlovu, a MUT graduate, said the internships offered to graduates were only for a year but permanent job positions required three years experience. “The government and private sector are not taking us seriously, we are suffering, we need jobs,” he said. As they headed to the City Hall, the unemployed graduates sang songs relating to their struggle with attaining jobs. Issues outlined in the memorandum include the issue with internships. Ndlovu said the internships offered to graduates are only for a year but permanent job positions require three years experience and more. “Where should we get the three years from,” asked Ndlovu. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Another issue is the process of applying for jobs where graduates need to certify documents every three months and make copies of qualifications which the graduates said is an expensive process for people with no income. “They told us education is key but we are qualified yet still struggling,” said Ndlovu. He also called for a national shut down on the unemployment issue in the country. Ndlovu called on graduates of all races, lecturers, senior university management and parents to take on the fight against unemployment. DAILY NEWS