Walter Petersen, the director of the South African National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence in Durban, made the remark after police uncovered a massive mandrax-manufacturing laboratory on a farm near Port Shepstone last week. Petersen said as long as there was a demand, people would set up manufacturing laboratories. “The dangers of these clandestine laboratories is the haphazard way in which they concoct the drug. They might be using ingredients that are harmful. This adds to the danger and effect it may have on the user.” Petersen said the drug problem in KwaZulu-Natal was on the rise, and the system in place to deal with it was wrong. “We should be focusing on demand reduction instead of harm reduction,” he said. “Let us stop the demand for the drug instead of going after the dealers. If people don’t want it, they won’t make it. Uncovering one laboratory does not end there. You can arrest 1000 people and uncover just as many drug labs but the problem still exists.” Petersen said when they had meetings with the National Prosecuting Authority on the drug-dealing conviction rate, they were told that in most drug arrest cases there was insufficient evidence brought to the court and witnesses were afraid to testify. “The government must stop paying lip service and do more to prevent drug addiction. There must be a greater political will. Let us end the talk shows and take decisive action as a collective.” Petersen urged stakeholders from the security cluster and department of social development to pool resources and join hands with registered facilities for the prevention and treatment of drug abuse and then talk about community upliftment. “We are facing a dilemma. Most of the addicts we deal with are the youth. They are supposed to be the future of the country. “Drug addicts leaving rehabilitation centres have nothing to look forward to in the community and there must be ways to prevent this. Prevention is better than cure. SANCA and other organisations are struggling to cope. We need to break community apathy,” he added. Daily News