Judge Bert Laing acquitted Singh’s domestic worker Nonjabulo Mteki of murder, but found her guilty of robbery with aggravating circumstances. Her accomplices, Amon Ngongi and Ally Jumar Abdullah, were convicted of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Singh, 57, a retired teacher, was found dead in her bedroom at her Musgrave Gardens home on February 29, 2016. She had duct tape around her face and hands, and was bound with plastic cable ties. According to the indictment, Mteki was in a relationship with a man called Osita Oriki, who ran a business selling precious stones, and who had heard through Mteki that her employer owned several diamonds, gold items and foreign currency. They planned to rob her. Mteki, who was also tied up with a rope to make it look like a real robbery, had handed over the remote control to the robbers. Singh’s son, Yashmeir, who lived with his mother in the secure complex at the time of the murder, had joined his younger brother, Amil, a medical student in Mauritius just after the murder. Their uncle and Singh’s brother-in-law, Ken Maharaj, said yesterday that her sons were shattered and were avoiding calls from friends and family members. He said the verdict had brought more depression than closure, and they had no plans to return to the country any time soon, having lost confidence in the justice system. “Everyone is disappointed. We cannot understand how a person who had opened doors to an elderly woman’s secure home to robbers who ended up taking her life, would be acquitted of her murder and instead be convicted of robbery with aggravating circumstances,” said Maharaj. He questioned the kind of message the conviction would send to other would-be offenders. In her defence, Mteki claimed she was also a victim and denied any involvement in the robbery. She also denied allegations that she was married to Oriki. While she admitted knowing Oriki, she said everything in her statement was narrated to her by the investigating officer, Warrant Officer Rajan Govender, which she then gave to the magistrate in a statement. “This court’s decision would definitely make people helpless. I myself have fear for my wife’s safety since the incident, but we have no choice because we need a helper,” Maharaj said. “We have no choice but to accept the court’s decision. We are now eagerly waiting to hear the sentence with the hope that she would get the maximum. “The court has to consider the fact that Singh’s sons were also left without a mother,” Maharaj said. Laing found that there was a relationship between Mteki, Ngongi and Abdullah because they were all linked to Singh’s home by the cybercrime unit in Pretoria. The cellphone evidence also placed them at the venues where they met to discuss the plan for the robbery. He said the evidence was that Mteki had left the kitchen door open in anticipation of the robbery, but said there was no reason not to believe her when she said the plan was not to kill. The trio, who were all remanded, will be sentenced on September 27. Govender yesterday thanked his investigation team for a job well done. Daily News