Nonceba Sylvia Yozi - and many other people who were beneficiaries of a subsidised ownership scheme by the municipality at Elwyn Court in 1999 - paid R9 803 for her flat, substantially less than the market value of the unit on Mahatma Gandhi (Point) Road. The grandmother, who survived on a government pension, owed the body corporate just over R73 000 in unpaid levies and the body corporate took her to court over it. According to the court papers, in undisclosed processes the municipality divested itself from Elwyn Court, and the form of ownership, which the residents had enjoyed, financially changed. She was forced to transfer the flat she already owned through the Sectional Title scheme in 2002 and since she had not used the services of an estate agent when she bought the unit, the city’s subsidy scheme made it possible for her to buy the unit below the market value. Yozi, who spoke to the Daily News after the Durban Magistrate’s Court ruling, said the building had, over the years, changed from one administrator to another and tenants were apparently made to pay into the bank accounts of different body corporates, payments which were later not traceable. Yozi said she had sleepless nights and did not know where she and her two grandchildren would go if they were evicted. She said she used to pay her levies every month until the body corporate implemented a special levy for the replacement of windows. “As a pensioner I could not afford to pay that amount. As residents we had proposed that they reflect the special levy on our monthly levy bill to pay in instalments. I think they did this deliberately to evict us,” she said. Magistrate JV Sanders found that the fact that she had qualified to get the subsidy showed that she was among the poorest of the poor and disadvantaged under the previous regime based on her race and gender. Sanders said all owners should be able to understand how the sectional title system operated and be able to afford any special levies which may be required from time to time. Sanders said the court had little sympathy for people who voluntarily bought a sectional title unit at market value, and then renege on their legal obligations towards the body corporate to the detriment of all fellow owners in the scheme. Sanders said Yozi, however, did not fall into this category. Instead the property she already owned became part of the Sectional Title Scheme and by some process, unknown to the court, the tragedy was that the poorest of the poor, such as Yozi, had to bear the brunt of such applications. “The ultimate aim obviously being to place her (Yozi) with someone else, who is blessed with sufficient financial means to live comfortably within the demands of the Sectional Title system of ownership, while the poorest of the poor have their properties sold in execution and the more affluent benefit as a result,”said Sanders. Sanders added that while Elwyn Body Corporate had argued that the decision could encourage the culture of non-payment of levies at the flats, he felt that Yozi was not advised of what her additional financial obligations would be and that she could not afford the costs of the new form of ownership. An excited Yozi said the judgment was a huge relief of stress and anxiety. “I thank the magistrate for listening and for putting himself in my shoes. I am so relieved that I won’t lose my home.” Daily News