The Daily News talked to a staff member who alleged “clients” - people with various physical and mental disabilities - had been abused for years. The staff member, who did not want to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media, claimed colleagues had had sex with some patients, while other patients had died because of negligence. A former employee alleged that some patients were being exploited for labour, being forced to work as security guards on the premises, getting paid as little as R300 a month. The facilities were funded by the departments of Health and Social Development, which provided up to R2 500 a patient each month, the former employee said. Donations from the private sector were also received. The former employee said the society worked with more than 200 people with disabilities and had a surplus in excess of R100000 annually, but no money went to improving patient care. The family of Ntando Dlamini, 24, has been left with more questions than answers. Dlamini’s older sister, Dudu, said her younger brother died at the facility in April last year and when the family asked what had happened they never received satisfactory answers. She said it was only recently that they had started to heal and make peace with his death. “He was a loving person and always respectful and greeted people. He was harmless.” Responding to the allegations, Gita Harie, executive director of the organisation, said they were investigating. “As an organisation we are extremely disappointed that the reputation of our NGO, the DCMHS, which is undertaking outstanding services, is being potentially harmed or damaged by the media coverage we have received,” Harie said. She said the matter of sexual abuse that allegedly took place on Tuesday was under investigation. She said patients at the institution did gate-keeping activities as part of psychosocial rehabilitation and economic integration. Harie confirmed the death of a patient last year and said a staff member had seen the patient lying on the bed, face-down, that morning. She said ambulances were called and the staff had provided support to the family. The death certificate cited natural causes, she said. On the allegation that a patient was assaulted so badly they went blind, Harie said a staff member was dismissed because of the incident. However, she could not confirm if the patient was made blind because of the assault. She said the society’s finances were above-board and people were free to come and inspect it. The provincial Department of Social Development said it was shocked by the allegations against the NGO and would be investigating them. Desmond Motha, a spokesperson for the KZN Department of Health, said the Sherwood branch of the NGO was not funded by them. Daily News