When the Daily News arrived on Wednesday, there was a strong sewage stench from the overflowing water on the road that led to the crematorium. Some mourners were given lifts by bakkie owners driving through and some Samaritans used their sport utility vehicles to ferry mourners across the dirty water. Raymond David from Chatsworth said the sewage on the road had been a huge problem for them. “We had to hire a bus to get us across the water,” he said. David felt the eThekwini Municipality could have been quicker to respond to the burst pipe. Satish Dhupelia, a board member of the Clare Estate Crematorium, said they tried to contact the municipality for hours without joy. Dhupelia said the water was so bad a hearse got stuck in the water during the day. He said undertakers had to help each other by transferring caskets into hearses with higher suspensions so that they could get through the water. He said Samaritans had also offered their cars to shuttle mourners through the water while he tried to direct traffic until the Metro Police arrived. Mandla Nsele, the municipality’s deputy head of communications, said a team had been sent to fix the burst water pipe. He said people should report all water leaks to 080 131 3013. Nsele also urged residents not to use water from the uMhlangane River in KwaMashu as the KwaMashu Wastewater Treatment Works had experienced a failure on four of its pumps. Nsele said: “The affected pumping units are currently offline to commission necessary repairs, resulting in only a single pump being available to pump the incoming flow to the works. The remaining unit is unable to handle the flow to the plant and untreated raw sewage is being discharged to the river.” Nsele said the public was prohibited from using the river below the treatment works. He said some sewage was being diverted to the old treatment works to reduce the amount of effluent going into the river. “The river will be aerated to increase oxygen levels and assist aquatic life. It will also be monitored and sampled daily for testing,” said Nsele. Daily News