Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) health-care services were found wanting, and a recently-released report by the Public Service Commission (PSC) has blasted the department for its unwillingness to show responsiveness and professionalism in handling citizens’ health needs. The commission also revealed that the department lacked professionalism when dealing with the needs of its practitioners. The scathing report further shows how various facilities lack urgency in attending to patients. Thirty regional and district health-care facilities were sampled during the research undertaken between 2016/17 and 2017/18 financial years. “The PSC team has been engaging health-care facilities’ management teams on their monitoring and evaluation methodologies, their approach to Batho Pele and citizen satisfaction, as well as the facilities’ own assessment of whether they were fulfilling their mandate. “The overall impression of the research so far is that, despite the best intention of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa on professional ethics, there are serious challenges. “The system can be improved to be more deliberate in terms of inculcating a thriving culture of professional ethics, in policies that are more responsive, in decisions that are quicker and geared towards impacting lives on a daily basis,” reads the report. The commission found that a discussion on excellence in relation to “difference made in community” or “responsiveness to patients” had to be eked out and solicited in discussion. This was in contrast to a fluent discussion of challenges. The commission was made aware of a number of challenges faced by hospitals and their management teams, and these were infrastructure, poor ventilation in waiting areas and consultation rooms, and inadequate bed capacity. Even critical posts are supposed to be ratified centrally by the department at provincial level. “Yet no facility management team is clear on how the Ratification Committee works to decide about the distribution of resources or responses to the requests of institutions. Some institutions are unclear whether non-response to their requests means that some posts, which they regard as critical, are in the non-critical list of the department. These are posts such as deputy matrons, public relations officers, and health and safety officers. “The assessment of whether the facility can still function without a certain level of capacity (in other words, the basic level of capacity to allow for delivery) is not done. Hence the non-filing of ‘non-critical posts’ ends up affecting the work of critical professions in different settings,” reads the report. It said while the province had been cited in the media for broken oncology machines, other areas of health practice were also affected by laxity in maintenance of echocardiograms, cataract sets and complete urology telescopic sets. Mandla Shabangu, the Democratic Nurses’ Organisation of South Africa provincial secretary, said they wanted a proper discussion with the department on the issues raised by the commission. He said these were issues they had raised before, but were labelled as misleading the public when they did so. Spokesperson for the Department of Health, Ncumisa Mafunda, said: “The Department welcomes the report of the Public Service Commission(PSC) from which it will use the recommendations and findings to correct the issues found. The report will also be shared with  hospital CEOs and District Managers in order for them to use the report as a tool to correct identified challenges. In addition to that, the report together with the Audit findings of the Office Of Health Standard Compliance (OHSC), will inform the Department’s Programmes of Quality Assurance in its facilities”. Daily News