Ntuli, the former ANC provincial spokesperson, told Indepdent Media that the youth in the party had played a major role in identifying capable leaders to unite the party, whose deep divisions had led to political killings and court interdicts. “There has been an undertaking from the younger generation that it is us who should unite the ANC, because we have a responsibility and obligation to inherit the ANC in the future,” he said. He said the ANCYL was able to convince their counterparts across factions that Sihle Zikalala was the best person to be elected chairperson. “We did not make a mistake as Zikalala is the best among us, and all of us will subject ourselves to his leadership and guidance, and I’m sure he is also the kind of a comrade who is amenable to the guidance of his own collective,” said Ntuli. Branches were convinced that former economic development MEC Michael Mabuyakhulu should be elected to deputise for Zikalala in order to build bridges between the groupings. “There was another view that we should not leave out Willies Mchunu (former deputy chair and current premier) because of his reservoir of knowledge and experience. “We respected that view, but the question that needed to be answered was whether that view supersedes the intention to be seen to reach out and unite the province,” said Ntuli Ntuli said his name and that of his deputy, Sipho Hlomuka, were also raised in the interest of unity, while co-operative governance and traditional affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube was included for continuity. Mchunu and Super Zuma, who lost his provincial secretary position to Ntuli, were elected into the provincial executive committee, which is composed of 30 members who are mostly youth. Balance Mtuza Mkhize, leader of a disgruntled group that had been opposing Zikalala and his faction in the Moses Mabhida Region, said he was happy with the balance in the top 5 leadership and the PEC. “It is made up of members of CR17, NDZ and unity slate. This balanced PEC has a potential to help us to unite structures and members of the ANC in the province,” said Mkhize. ANCYL provincial chairperson Kwazi Mshengu, whose structure was linked to Zikalala’s camp, also hoped the outcome of the conference would end factionalism. “There are many challenges to deal with, but the first step was to hold the conference so we have an authorised and legitimate leadership to complete the task of uniting the party,” he said. Mshengu said he did not expect any court challenge to nullify the results as in 2015. “Comrades have accepted the results, and there were no signs of grieving as in the 2015 (nullified Pietermaritzburg provincial) conference. This time around everyone is satisfied,” said Mshengu. He said the new leadership had been empowered to work towards ending years of political killings in the province. Daily News