However, vagrants who were removed from the tracks are now living either in the city centre or at Berea Park, opposite King Dinuzulu Park. Thousands of visitors are in the city - Durban hosted the ANC KZN Elective Conference at the weekend, BRICS 2018 began on Saturday, the Durban International Film Festival began on Wednesday and the BRICS Film Festival began on Sunday Prasa provincial head Zama Nomnganga said the vagrants were chased off tracks because they disrupted operations. Nomnganga said he had found that vagrants were also intimidating their passengers. “We always chase them, even if they come back, we chase them,” Nomnganga said. “What we will do is fence in the tracks. ” Metro police spokesperson senior superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said if the vagrants were at Berea Park, it should be reported to them so they could be removed. “Through joint operations with Prasa, we have found that more than 150 of the vagrants have criminal records,” Sewpersad said. He said the city’s leadership might have a long-term solution to get rid of vagrants, but he was not sure what this was. He was aware that there had been discussions about the matter. Heather Rorick, chairperson of the Bulwer Safety and Urban Regeneration Forum, said the municipality should come up with a proper plan instead of chasing and displacing vagrants, who then simply moved closer to the suburbs. “At the end of the day we know they are unemployed, we know they need money, so the next thing is that crime is going to come from it,” Rorick said, “just to get their basic needs and feed their drug habit. What’s scary is that they are coming much closer into our suburbs. It’s not something that can be pushed around and pushed under the rug anymore.” She said the government did not have enough rehabilitation centres but “it is something the city needs to look at because the situation is getting worse and it’s beginning to affect everybody now”. Last month, Mandla Nsele, eThekwini Municipality’s acting head of communications, told the Daily News they had been addressing vagrancy with daily Nuisances and Behaviour in Public Places operations. “A person arrested for vagrancy is taken to a police station and given a warning and entered into the Warning Register,” he said. Daily News