Arts, Culture, Sports and Recreation MEC Bongi Sithole-Moloi was among visitors to the school and relayed words of encouragement to the pupils who are set to write their final school exams. Sithole-Moloi, who was standing in for Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana, said the time had officially come for Grade 12 pupils not to rest but to work hard. “Forget about the World Cup and Durban July, for now all you guys need to focus on from today until October, is your studies,” she said to an audience of parents, teachers and Grade 12 pupils who were taking a break from their winter-school classes. She encouraged the pupils to make sacrifices and put their studies first so that they could be successful, as the province was relying on them to increase the pass rate from 72% last year to 80% or the ultimate goal of 100%. To the under-performing schools, Sithole-Moloi assured them that the department would work with them to ensure better results at the end of this year. Dr Barney Mthembu, the acting deputy director general of Curriculum Management and Delivery, said the 100 days may seem like a long time for the pupils to prepare but that was not the case. “One hundred days is only 2400 hours and if you break that down into months it’s only three months. When we further break it down to weeks it’s only 15 weeks which is not a lot of time at all,” said Mthembu. He encouraged pupils to use the time to prepare for the exams to ensure they are all ready by October. Sithole-Moloi and Mthembu encouraged parents to also be involved in their children’s studies. Sithole-Moloi thanked teachers who were sacrificing their winter holidays to teach Grade 12 pupils. “Teachers no longer have holidays because they are working tirelessly to ensure that pupils do well this year,” she said. Aphiwe Mfeka a Grade 12 pupil from uMlazi Comtech high school said, “Come hell or high water we will be successful.” She was thankful for the department’s messages of encouragement and assured them that from now on, they would be studying effectively until the final exams begin in October. Sithole-Moloi rang a bell and lit a candle to symbolise that the time for sleeping was over for pupils. Daily News