Having lived with the anxiety of delays concerning the remuneration of their stipends, plus not having been paid their annual increases, these adjustments are expected to make a difference in the lives of the struggling teachers, who are excluded from the benefits enjoyed by other educators employed by the same department. Teachers’ unions in the province - the National Teachers’ Union (Natu), the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union (Sadtu) and the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa) - had been at loggerheads with the provincial Education Department over a salary increase for Grade R teachers. The department said it had finally secured the money to pay them their long overdue salary adjustments of R1250 for qualified and R750 for underqualified Grade R practitioners. Back pay Nathi Ngcobo, head of Human Resources, said the department had experienced financial constraints in the past year, but the issues had been resolved. He added that the department did not have the budget to back pay Grade R teachers from 2017, as had been expected, but it would pay increases from April to June this year. Ngcobo said the province had approached the National Treasury for assistance in processing the payments. Grade R teachers in the province were paid a stipend of R6500 a month, without the benefits of medical aid, housing allowance and an annual bonus that were enjoyed by public school teachers. Ngcobo added that it might take two or three years for Grade R teachers to become fully absorbed into the country’s basic education system and this included salary negotiations. He said Grade R teachers had been remunerated by parents until the department intervened to pay them stipends. Grade R teachers were employed under different conditions, through a stipend remuneration. Constraints “We are gradually going to begin to absorb some of them as from next year. Although it is going to take time, the department realises the importance of early childhood development in education, but financial constraints have been one of the challenges for the department,” he said. Allen Thompson, Natu deputy president, said they were not excited about the news, as the increases would only be for the current financial year. Thompson questioned what would happen about the arrears increases for the 2017/2018 financial year. “Grade R teachers are the only government employees who earn the same salary that they earned in 2015. “This news does not excite us. We are going to make sure that they are paid every cent that the department owes them,” said Thompson. Naptosa spokesperson Thirona Moodley said they were grateful to the department for finally securing the money to pay Grade R teachers their well-deserved salary adjustments: “Every year it’s a battle for Grade R teachers to get salary increases. The money would really come in handy considering the high cost of living and the price of petrol going up all the time. The increases were long overdue.” Nomarashiya Caluza, Sadtu general secretary, was not available for comment. Daily News