She said the fact that negotiations were continuing until the 11th hour were “a good sign” that the matter may be settled outside of court. Intense behind-the-scenes negotiations have been taking place with the ANC provincial task team and members of the NEC on the one hand and disgruntled members from ANC branches in the Moses Mabhida, Harry Gwala and Lower South Coast regions on the other. The three branches brought an urgent court interdict on the eve of the eighth provincial conference that was scheduled to be held in Empangeni in June. They said that unless issues such as gate-keeping, political instability and threats of violence were dealt with, they would not rescind their case. Their case is set down at the Pietermaritzburg High Court should the discussions prove futile. “We are playing it by ear for now but if the discussions go well, there might not even be a court case. “The fact that discussions have continued to this length shows that their grievances are being heard and there might be a positive outcome,” Mafu added. Speaking on the sidelines of the closed discussions yesterday, one of the applicants from the Moses Mabhida region, Zanele Sithole, said they had not yet decided on whether to withdraw their court interdict. “The discussions are still ongoing and I don’t think a decision will come out today. “We are still with the lawyers and other parties and negotiations are continuing,” Sithole added late yesterday. After the aggrieved members interdicted the conference, ANC deputy secretary- general Jessie Duarte led a dispute resolution team to the province to try to convince the members to withdraw their high court application against the party. Duarte met members from various branches of the Moses Mabhida region at the Pietermaritzburg City Hall on the same day that their counterparts were gathering at the Harry Gwala Stadium in Pietermaritzburg to start the regional election conference, which was also interdicted. The co-ordinator of the ANC task team in KZN, Sihle Zikalala, said they were hoping to settle the matter out of court which was why talks were continuing until late yesterday. “We are currently engaging with the ANC members and their lawyers. Our view is to settle this out of court,” he said. In the court papers filed last month, one of the applicants Reshma Brijraj, an ANC member of the Lower South Coast region, stated that she and her fellow applicants “have all been ANC members for many years”. “In our own right, as individual members, each one of us has a direct and substantial interest in the relief claimed in this application, and in ensuring that the activities and proceedings of the ANC in this province are conducted in terms of the constitution and its other applicable constitutional instruments and policies,” Brijraj said. Daily News