Durban -  The ANC in KwaZulu Natal has moved to assure community leaders in Chatsworth that President Cyril Ramaphosa will be visiting the area on Friday as part of the party's Thuma Mina campaign. An email sent to community leaders states that the president will visit Chatsworth to listen to the community and their contributions to the solutions that the ANC urgently needs to address the ills facing society. "The ANC hereby extends an invitation to you and your organisation to form part of this engagement," the party states. The meeting will take place at the Chatsworth Youth centre. The Thuma Mina campaign seeks to enlist citizens and volunteerism to address the problems afflicting all communities in the country ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said the ANC would roll out the Thuma Mina campaign in KwaZulu-Natal and North West provinces. "The programmes scheduled to take place in KZN and North West provinces will be led by the ANC president, Cyril Ramaphosa, and the deputy president, David Mabuza, respectively. The Thuma Mina campaign seeks to resolve community concerns immediately across the country," Mabe said. An ANC poster with Ramaphosa`s picture on it states that he will be at Groutville sports field, near KwaDukuza, to launch the campaign on Saturday. A senior ANC leader in KZN confirmed that Ramaphosa would be in Chatsworth as part of the campaign. Omi Nair, who represents the Crossmoor Crisis Committee, said she was not sure what was on the agenda and if they would be given a chance to address Ramaphosa. Nair was recently vocal about land invasions in the area. "We need to hear what the president says and presents to us. We are going with an open mind, together with a broad range of civic organisations. We will formulate our response after his presentations," she said. Sam Pillay, spokesperson of Chatsworth Shield, an organisation of leaders of civic, community policing and NGO groups in and around Chatsworth, said they would attend to discuss several issues of concern to their member organisations. Daily News