Durban - Illegal connections are one of the leading causes of unplanned power outages  Eskom’s Divisional Executive for Security, Tebogo Rakau said this week. In a warning issued to the public, Eskom said that their major concern in the case of illegal connections is that danger is posed not only to the people who engage in illegal connections, but also to the rest of their community, particularly children and animals. Electricity theft costed the country approximately R20-billion per year. Rakau said while Eskom installed circuit breakers that switch off when the load reaches dangerous levels‚ which prevented the transformers from exploding, residents  sometimes bypass these safety features and the transformers eventually explode. "Not only is this dangerous‚ but these transformers can take hours or even days to repair. Unfortunately, this affects and inconveniences legal and paying customers as well. "It is, therefore, to everyone’s benefit that we stand together as Eskom, businesses, government and the community at large to fight and win the battle against infrastructure and electricity theft. "One person losing their life or getting injured because of the unsafe and illegal use of electricity is simply one too many, especially because these are avoidable incidents,” Rakau added.  Curbing illegal electricity connections, infrastructure theft and vandalism will ensure the safety of communities while also improving the performance of the electricity network, ensuring uninterrupted electricity supply for the benefit of individuals, businesses and the country at large.  Eskom encourages all community members to report any unsafe and illegal power conditions or connections they come across by calling 08600 ESKOM (37566). These include exposed electrical wiring, low-hanging cables, illegal connections, vandalised electrical equipment such as substations and exposed electrical cables due to theft or vandalism.  The public can also report electricity and infrastructure theft anonymously to Crime Line on 32211 (R1/ SMS) or call 0800 11 2722. The identity of those who report theft incidents remains completely protected at all times. DAILY NEWS