Ravi Naidoo and his wife, Bhanu, both 60, were kidnapped by four men in a Polo who hijacked them of their Toyota Prado VX on Tuesday night. The Silverglen couple were taken at gunpoint on a high-speed roller-coaster ride through uMlazi. Hijackers usually take the driver of the vehicle along to prevent any reports being made to the police before they can find and remove the tracking device. The Naidoos, who manage an Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) group, had been returning from a therapy session at the Havenside Community Hall with four group members. They were leaving them at the AA recovery centre in Dawnview Road when they were hijacked by the men. One man remained in the Polo. Naidoo said because a group member had a 25kg bag of sugar with him, he drove into the property. He usually drops them off at the roadside. “My wife and I were seated in the car when we heard the words ‘get down’ repeated. One member was hit on his face with a gun,” Naidoo said. “They were robbed of their phones and cash. Our doors were opened and we were searched and pushed into the back seat. A hijacker sat on either side of us. They told us to put our heads down and keep quiet. We complied and remained calm,” he said. During the journey, the hijackers were unaware that Naidoo had his phone in a shirt pocket covered by his jacket, until it rang when someone at the recovery centre called. “I heard the gun cock. It was pushed against my head. The hijackers called me a liar. They asked me what package I had for the tracking device. I said I did not know offhand. We were following the Polo at high speed. We felt every bump,” Naidoo said. Eventually the hijackers stopped and began removing the door pads and dashboard, checking for the tracker. They eventually located the device, but received a call that the police were on to them. Naidoo said they played a cat-and-mouse game with the police until they took a wrong turn and almost drove into a ditch. “If we had not prayed, we would have been dead. They parked the car and we heard them chat on the phone. We later heard the crackle of a police radio. We were overcome with relief when the police opened the door. The hijackers had fled. I hugged my wife and thanked God they had not harmed us,” Naidoo said. The hijackers stole Bhanu’s gold bangles, wedding ring and a neck chain. They took Naidoo’s gold chain and ring. “The hijacker asked me if I had a chain. I said that the chain was of sentimental value and had a Lord Shiva pendant. “It was given to me by my mother on my 21st birthday. I told him to take my chain - ‘it will bless you too’,” an emotional Naidoo said. He advised victims to remain calm, and not argue with hijackers. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said a case of car hijacking and kidnapping was being investigated by Bayview SAPS. “The vehicle was recovered in T-Section, uMlazi. The victims were taken to hospital because they were highly traumatised,” Mbhele said. Silverglen Community Policing Forum spokesperson Nerish Lukhun said motorists should be aware of their surroundings and of cars following them. “Hijackers follow their victims home in most cases. People need to report anything suspicious,” he said. Taking a victim had no benefit to a hijacker except to buy himself time to get away, said Glen Naidoo, director of KZN VIP Unit in Phoenix. He said victims usually did not know where the tracking device was fitted. The recovery of a hijacked car depended on the crucial moments immediately after the incident, and if it was witnessed by anyone and reported to the police. Durban metro police spokesperson Senior-Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said in most cases the hijackers kept the vehicle until they established if there was a tracker. “The victim is often dumped in a remote place. The device is found and dumped at the roadside,” he said. Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen said only the person who installed the tracking device knew where it was located. “Tracking time for a vehicle is dependent on the unit fitted. We always advise victims to remain calm. Never confront a hijacker, because he is not afraid to shoot,” he said. Daily News