Durban - A Chatsworth family has called on the police and community activists to quell violence on Link Road, Shallcross after a young man was killed in an accident on Sunday, apparently after a rock was thrown on the road. The call comes after several violent service delivery protests and rock-throwing incidents on the stretch of road between Higginson Highway and Shallcross. The Bottlebrush informal settlement occupies a large plot where several criminal elements are allegedly causing chaos. According to local tow truck operators, motorists slammed into rocks placed on the road on two previous occasions. This caused their vehicles to veer out of control and crash. The motorists were then robbed of their belongings and car parts were stolen. On Sunday night, Nikyle Singh, 18, of Welbedacht East became the latest victim. He died in hospital after the car he was driving slid off the road and crashed. His friend Tevin Pillay, 24, is on life support in hospital.  The Audi they were in belonged to a close friend, Pratish Harilal. Singh's aunt, Veloshnie Rampersad, said the family had a get-together that day. Singh then left to visit a friend. He had been a jovial mood after starting a job as a shop-fitter. "A nurse who lives in the area recognised him in the hospital emergency room and contacted us. We went to the crash scene and what the family saw there was heart wrenching. People were heartless," she said. Singh flew out of the car on impact and allegedly hit a tree. Rampersad said the hood of his jacket caught onto a branch. "We heard a group of people pulled him down and began stripping him of his clothing. They did the same with Pillay. They were left with their boxer shorts only," she said.  Rampersad said they heard that a boulder was thrown on the road. "They threw him into the bush. We heard an off-duty policeman arrived and assisted by keeping the mob at bay. We could not find any of their valuables. Their wallets and phones are missing," Rampersad added. Singh's mother, Theresa Naidoo, said he suffered multiple internal injuries and the image of him on the hospital bed would always haunt her. Consoled by her daughters and Singh's wife, Serena Govender, she broke down in tears when she recalled her son's last words to her in hospital. "He told me that he was feeling cold:  'Mommy, I am feeling cold. Take me home.' He asked us to pick him up. We could not do anything for him. He fought for his life three times in the emergency unit," Naidoo said. Singh leaves behind a six-month-old baby.  Harilal believes his car was being chopped up at the scene. The back door, seats, boot lid and several engine components were missing. "We had picnic bags and other belongings in the boot that were stolen. They also took car accessories like the wheel spanner, jack and polish. They took their clothes. I saw them both with only their shorts on. The car is a material item; I lost a friend in the incident. I will never get him back. This is our daily route and to divert from it is of great inconvenience. The police should conduct a full investigation into the matter," Harilal said. Shaldon Pillay said his brother was in a critical condition. Tevin worked for Gem Schoolwear in Durban. Shallcross residents have complained after the installation of speed humps on Link Road. "Shouldn’t we try to drive faster and not slow down because these criminals are living right next to the road?" asked Altamish Haniff. Devan Kistnasamy Naicker, a community activist in Chatsworth, labelled the incident intentional criminal sabotage. "Criminal elements from the informal settlement deliberately placed rocks on the road to stop passing motorists on Sunday night. The driver lost control and crashed. He was trying to escape the burning tyres on Link Road. Before the ambulance and the tow truck could reach him, the criminals stripped his car of all contents as well as doors and panels and lights and engine parts. They surrounded his car like a pack of vultures, leaving his injured body to lie without assistance," Naicker said. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said it is alleged that Singh was travelling on Higginson Highway when he lost control of the car and veered off the road. She said the car landed on the ramp below the highway. At that stage, no other persons were at the scene, she said. Chatsworth police are investigating a case of culpable homicide. Anyone who witnessed the accident should contact Detective Constable Magoso at 031 451 4230 or Crime Stop at 08600 10111. Daily News