Durban - All roads will lead to the Greyville Racecourse on Saturday as one of Africa's biggest horse race, the Vodacom Durban July takes place. At least 50 000 people will flock to the racecourse and millions more will watch the event at home. According to estimates, some R300 million will be pumped into the local economy. And while many will attend the event or be glued to their screens for the fashion that will be on display, the excitement around the race will provide the novice with punter an opportunity to take a few bets. Here are the various categories that one can place bets on, according to the website, www.vodacomdurbanjuly.co.za. Wins and Places A person can take a bet on either a win or place. If you bet on a horse for a Win, the horse must win to qualify for a payout. If you’re not that confident of your selection you can take a place bet if there are 6 or more runners. Here you will receive a payout if your horse finishes 1st or 2nd if there are 6 or 7 runners, or 1st, 2nd or 3rd if there are 8 to 15 runners. If there are 16 or more runners there will also be a payout for 4th place. A Swinging bet If you like two horses in the same race you can take what is called Swinger. Here you call both horses to the tote operator and you win if your horses finish 1st and 2nd, 1st and 3rd or 2nd and 3rd. The Swinger is the only bet with a R2,00 minimum bet. All other bets are a minimum of R6,00. An Exacta A little more difficult than the Swinger is the Exacta where you must select the first two horses past the post in the exact order A Trifecta The Trifecta is as easy as 1-2-3 and involves selecting the first 3 horses past the post in the correct order. A person can also 'box' the horse numbers so it pays out irrespective of what position the three horse come in as long as they are in the first three. A Quartet The Quartet involves the first four horses past the post, is more difficult to win than the Trifecta but pays higher dividends. Like the Trifecta, a person can also 'box' the horse numbers so it pays out irrespective of what position the four horse come in as long as they are in the first four. Daily News 