Nonjabulo Mteki told the Durban High Court that the confession statement she made before a magistrate in March 2016, where she admitted being married to Kenny Osita Oriki and said he was the mastermind behind the plan to rob Musgrave resident Shakila Singh’s of jewellery, had been coached. Oriki is believed to have skipped the country. Mteki, 33, Singh’s long-time domestic worker, and the alleged hit men, Jumar Abdullar, 39, and Kennedy Amon Ngongi, 28, both from Tanzania, face charges of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. They have all pleaded not guilty and have been in custody since their arrests in 2016. Singh, 57, a retired teacher, was found dead in her bedroom with duct tape tied around her face and her hands, and bound by plastic cable ties, at her Musgrave Gardens home on February 29, 2016. It is alleged that Mteki was in a relationship with Oriki, who ran a business selling precious stones, and who had heard through Mteki that her employer owned several diamonds, gold items and foreign currencies. Mteki yesterday testified in her defence and told the court she was also a victim and denied any involvement in the robbery. She also denied allegations that she was married to Oriki. While she admitted knowing Oriki, she said everything in her statement was narrated to her by the investigating officer in the case, Warrant Officer Rajan Govender, which she then told to the magistrate. Married According to the confession statement, she said she met Oriki in 2009 and they got married in 2010, but did not live together. She lived in uMlazi and he lived in Overport. She said there was a meeting between her, Oriki and two other African males. The plan was that the two men would rob Singh in Mteki’s presence after Singh’s son left for work so no one would suspect that she was involved. On that day she said she handed over the gate remote control she had stolen from Singh’s drawer for the two men to gain access to the complex. She said her role was to keep the kitchen door unlocked for the men to enter. She said on the morning of the incident, when she heard the door opening, she assumed that it was the robbers and she went downstairs. It was indeed the two men dressed in blue overalls wearing gloves and carrying a five-litre bucket. They immediately went upstairs. “I heard her (Singh) scream, Yash Yash .(Her son) and things falling. There was a commotion for about 10 minutes.” She said when she arrived home that evening, she telephoned Oriki and told him that his men had killed her employer, and he told her not to say a word to anyone about their plan. She ended the statement by apologising to Singh’s family, especially her sons who were left without a mother, the community of Musgrave Gardens and all women. State advocate Vasie Chetty said it was clear from the statement that it was Mteki’s words. She pointed out that Mteki remembered the dates, the times and every detail. Mteki each time responded by saying everything in the confession was not her own words, but a carefully rehearsed version as coached by Govender. “I had to tell the story as told. I also wanted my employer’s killers to be apprehended. I trusted Govender because he is an educated person. “I didn’t know that he was throwing my life away by making up this story,” she claimed. The trial continues. Daily News