Durban - The family of a 10-year-old boy who went missing a week ago have made a desperate plea for his safe return. And while police have arrested a man in connection with the kidnapping, he has vehemently denied that he had anything to do with the boy's disappearance. Miguel Louw,  has been missing for seven days. His mother Raylene Louw said he left for school with his 13-year-old sister on Tuesday 17 July but did not return home after school. Speaking to the Daily News, the boy's grandmother Arlene Paul has made a passionate appeal to residents to help find her missing grandson. He attends Rippon Road Primary School in Sydenham which is across the road from his granny's home. Paul said when they went around searching for him that afternoon they were given a description of a man he was last seen with. "The man had been working with Raylene and we think he became obsessed with her. Camera footage indicates that he took Miguel to the KFC next to our home. They had a meal," she said. A missing person report was opened at Sydenham police station but the docket has been transferred to the Inanda Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigations (FCS).  The man has appeared in the Durban Magistrate's Court on Monday. Paul said the case remanded to 30 July and the suspect was in Westville Prison. Paul said she has not slept well since and the strain and stress of the incident have taken a toll on her life. "We not sure what he did with him and we fear the more days go by he may be dead. We remain hopeful that he is alive somewhere. We will not give up hope," an emotional Paul said. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a KwaZulu Natal police spokesperson, confirmed that the boy was taken from school by a person known to him on July 17. "On Friday Sydenham police arrested a 43-year-old suspect for kidnapping but the child was nowhere to be found. The suspect appeared in the Durban Magistrates’ Court and was remanded into police custody," she said. Police appeal to anyone with information on the boy's whereabouts to contact Sydenham police on 031 203 2703 or Crime Stop 08600 10111. Anyone with information on his whereabouts can contact: Arlene Paul 062 3655 309 His Father Kirk Louw 065 515 0293 Daily News