“We are gearing up for elections buoyed by the positive trajectory from 2016 and, of course, we have done very well in successive by-elections. Those are indications of a party in demand and a party able to reposition itself and arrest the electoral decline,” Hlengwa said. He said the political change and economic mood in the country required the IFP to undergo a policy review process. “It is a comprehensive process that will see us in discussion with experts and analysts, and we benchmark our work against current-day research so that we are able to ensure we are up to date with global conditions. “This process is important to us because, in our view, these elections are a make-or-break and, therefore, we can’t as a party go to elections ill-prepared,” Hlengwa said. The IFP, he said, was fully aware that its membership was growing, but that needed to be coupled with concise and clear policy directions. “This policy review is to sharpen our policy positions on all matters.” On Friday, there will be a meeting of chairpersons of policy sub-committees and the election management committee. Party leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi will on Saturday open the policy review summit that will culminate in a communication workshop on Monday. “What will happen after the summit is that the (policy) sub-committees will go out on a ‘Listening Campaign’ so that the policy review is not only confirmed to IFP members and structures, but it becomes a South African process. “We believe it is important that, as we craft our manifesto, we respond to the collective needs of our people. We are, of course, anchoring our policy review in the values of the party, unity in diversity, freedom and solidarity,” Hlengwa said. He also said there was a process under way to convene an elective conference. “At an appropriate time we are to make announcements in terms of how plans have gone It is important that we proceed with the policy review summit and then have the conference certify the work of the summit,” Hlengwa said. He added the IFP has cleaned the branch register and authenticated branches after bogus memberships were found. “We did not want as a party to find ourselves at the receiving end of legal action. We live in a membership fully aware of their party rights,” he said about previous postponements of the conference. Daily News