The municipality filed an application seeking an eviction order against 16 families who occupied incomplete units of the low-cost housing project, known as Greenfield Housing Project. According to the court papers filed by the municipality, the project, phase 1, was meant for people who lived under power lines, blocking infrastructure development and those who live close to river banks, but the project was halted by the illegal occupants. The Legal Resources Centre, representing the illegal residents, filed answering papers last week opposing the City’s application. The residents also filed a counter-application, requesting an order for the municipality to develop a clear policy for the allocation of the RDP houses and housing lists within the area of jurisdiction. The residents, in their answering papers, also said the municipality failed to develop a coherent housing list. They said they invaded the homes because they feared they would be overlooked yet again, and not allocated houses. According to Gugu Ngema and Nkosinathi Mngadi, senior officials at the City’s housing department, the municipality said in its affidavit that the contractor it appointed to build the houses, the Zikhulise Group, have been unable to finish phase 1 of the four phase project that intended to build 2 000 units/ houses for the approved beneficiaries. “The existence of the respondents (illegal occupiers) is preventing the contractor from completing the houses. The contractor cannot continue while there are people on the property due to risks and safety control measures,” said the municipality. The papers stated that on December 20, the contractor (Zikhulise Group) closed for the holidays and when senior municipality officials conducted a general inspection on the site on December 27, discovered that the respondents had unlawfully invaded the property which was still under construction. The municipality said it tried to use the assistance of ward 86 councillor in getting the unlawful occupiers to co-operate with the process of allocation of the houses by vacating, but to no avail. The municipality said although the illegal occupiers had been served with letters to vacate the houses as early as February 6, some of them signed acknowledgement of receipt of the letters, which informed them of their illegal occupation and requested to vacate within 24 hours, while some refused to sign. The municipality said there were several community meetings held this year to address issues related to the allocation process with the view that the respondents and approved beneficiaries would get clarity on how the process unfolded when the beneficiary list was finalised in 2016. “The other members of the community who were aggrieved by the occupation were of the view that the respondents were being allocated to the exclusion of the approved beneficiaries, thus necessitating further meetings with the community,” said the municipality. Should the order be granted, residents will have to vacate within 10 days. Daily News