Judge Xolile Ntshulana also found Sabelo Mkhize, 26, Lindokuhle Mchunu, 18, and Sboniso Khubisa, 19, guilty of two counts of kidnapping and two counts of robbery. They were acquitted on the charge of possession of a firearm and ammunition, while Mkhize was found guilty of additional charges of robbery relating to the firearm he admitted to having stolen from his grandfather before the incident. The judgment was handed down on Tuesday. Jojisa and his colleague (both from Inanda police station) were lured into an ambush at the Namibia informal settlement after the three accused went to Inanda police station on September 22, 2015, and sought help from the police to serve a “letter of demand” at a house in the area. When there, the police officers were disarmed, stripped of their uniforms, bundled into the back of a police van and shot. Moyana died, while Jojisa survived by escaping from the back of the police van. Jojisa was taken to uMhlanga Hospital, where she spent more than a month recovering. She had taken seven bullets before the men tried to set the pair alight in the back of the police van. Jojisa said the incident had changed her life for ever. Once an active cop who swiftly responded to calls in the community, she was now office-bound. “I miss being a real cop. I miss the action. I am not happy that I cannot do what I am supposed to do, to go out there and make a difference,” she said. She said there was not a day that went by without the haunting images of the incident. She said when she managed to escape to find help she kept saying her colleague was left behind and they must rush to help him. “I kept telling them, with my breath running shorter and shorter, that there was someone else, that they must rush to assist him,” she recalled, trying to fight back her tears. “There were times when I broke down and could not bring myself to go to court and testify. It was too draining, but I had to face my assailants in court and do this for Moyana to find justice.” Although she has recovered from the wounds, her eyesight had been affected and her left arm was not fully functional. “I am still jumpy and get a fright over nothing. Although counselling is helping, I have difficulty sleeping at night. “I take sleeping tablets every night,” she said. Ntshulana found that the same firearm which was found at the house in Mpolwa on the day the men were arrested matched the spent cartridges found at the crime scene. Ntshulana said the State had proven beyond reasonable doubt that the trio had acted with common purpose and the fact they were armed meant they knew someone could die that day. He said the evidence of Jojisa and her ID parade evidence in identifying the suspects was the key evidence in the case. “Jojisa had enough time, while seated in the police van, at the place where they were to serve the protection order, to observe the suspects. I am satisfied that her identification of the suspects was enough to convict,” he said. Jojisa said she was now waiting for the court to hand down the kind of sentence which would be a warning to others. “I hope Moyana will now rest in peace. I hope this conviction will also help me to find my own peace with what happened. “I miss going out and being an active cop, I don’t see that happening again,” she said. Daily News