Palesa Phili, who was just over a week into her new role, said the support of big business for a programme being run by the chamber to help SMMEs was for the betterment of the city’s economy and the sustainability of all businesses. Phili, who has more than 20 years’ experience in information and communications technology, was previously the regional head of MTN Business in KZN. She was talking about the Enterprise Supplier Development Programme, which helps small companies prepare to be suppliers to big business. The programme has its roots in the chamber’s relationship with Transnet Pipelines when Transnet was looking for SMME suppliers. The chamber, an accredited enterprise supplier development implementer, prepared 60 SMMES for the role. After the success of the programme, it is now being expanded and other big businesses and companies are needed. “It would be great if we could get 100 or more companies. We have already started talking to some businesses and have been getting a good response,” Phili said. With more people turning to entrepreneurship - it is at its highest level in five years - the chamber has launched a special membership fee of R599 to start-up businesses, enabling them to gain access to information and opportunities. And, with many smaller start-up companies being unaware of the existence of the DCCI, an aggressive membership drive would be launched next month, Phili said. In tough times, it was vital that companies, particularly smaller ones, got help, she said. “A large proportion of start-ups fail in the first three years because of the lack of skills and support, which is fundamental to their growth and survival. We can help with training.” Phili, a mother of two, has taken over the baton from former DCCI head Dumile Cele. Hailing from Johannesburg, Phili moved to Durban in 2010 and said it was the best move she ever made. “I discovered that the quality of life is amazing here and the people are great. I have also noticed a big improvement in service in general, like in restaurants and supermarkets, in the past couple of years. Durban really is a world-class city,” she said. Meanwhile, Cele is preparing to become a socialpreneur to address “the deficit in our education system for less-privileged schools through public-private partnership; growing township and rural economies and bridging the gap between the first and second economy”. Daily News