Durban - Uber drivers in Durban believe that they are being targeted by police at the King Shaka International Airport. This comes after video footage emerged on social media showing an Uber driver being chased from the airport’s parking lot by a group of policemen. The footage came to light this week, showing police trying to forcefully arrest the driver who asks police to clarify which taxi service can park at the airport. In the video clips, the driver is told by police that he is not allowed to park at the parking lot, despite the man repeatedly telling them that he was there to pick up a passenger.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The officers then try to place the man under arrest. They claim that his vehicle has false registration plate information. The driver then asks to speak to a black policeman, arguing that a black officer will be able to understand him better.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The person recording the videos, also asks why the driver is being arrested and police ignore him. The police officers then force the man to the ground and in the third video, a police officer grabs the driver in a choke-hold.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Speaking on the basis of anonymity, an Uber driver said there were no laws to protect them as drivers. “It is clear that the police are taking sides between on the issues between the Uber drivers and metered taxis. As an Uber driver, it is clear that you are on your own. No law can protect you,” the driver said. Last week, an Uber user claimed that drivers from Uber and Taxify were not allowed to pick up passengers from the pick up zone at KSIA. “This is due to the fights between the drivers from metered cabs and Uber. If a driver can be identified, they will not be allowed into the pick up area,” the man said. National police spokesperson, Brigadier Vish Naidoo, said they were looking into the matter. Daily News