Durban - The K-RITH Tower Building on the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Nelson R. Mandela School of Medicine Campus has received national recognition at the South African Institute of Architects (SAIA) Awards. The SAIA awarded the K-RITH Tower Building a Corobrik-SAIA Award of Merit at their awards evening in May. The building won regionally in 2017. FGG Architects designed the K-RITH Tower Building. Acclaimed South African artist Jane du Rand’s striking ceramic and mosaic installation on the outside walls, floor of the atrium and main stairwell, reflects the work that happens in the building. The artist took inspiration from symbols of healing from different cultures, and looked at the structure and shape of viruses, blood cells and bacteria. Indigenous plants with medicinal and healing properties also make up the installation. Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI) is the anchor tenant of the K-RITH Tower Building. The Institute has some of the continent’s most advanced laboratories, where scientists work to better understand, treat and ultimately cure HIV, tuberculosis disease and related illnesses. AHRI’s sophisticated laboratory facilities include 600m² of biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) space – which allows researchers to work safely with airborne diseases like TB. The eight-floor building also houses several other biomedical research centres. The ground floor has a number of multipurpose spaces such as seminar rooms and a coffee shop. CAPRISA and AHRI occupy the second and third floors respectively, with AHRI laboratories on the fourth to seventh floors. The top floor is dedicated to services. The winged roof of the four-storey high atrium is a tribute to the US aviator and philanthropist Howard Hughes (1905-1976); his eponymous Howard Hughes Medical Institute funded the building project. Costas Criticos, AHRI’s Chief Operating Officer, said the success of AHRI’s K-RITH Tower Building is thanks to the exhaustive process involved in developing the architectural brief between AHRI and FGG Architects, which included taking inspiration from international trends. “From its earliest conception the K-RITH Tower Building was a project which was carefully planned and designed to meet every eventuality, including the building’s resilience to earthquakes and the protection of the researchers and campus community from dangerous pathogens,” said Criticos. “Every detail was considered in terms of its functionality to enable TB and HIV scientific research, and yet it is a building which is also beautiful and uplifting. I feel very proud to work in such an iconic building which has architecturally unified the campus and has given it a significant centre of gravity.” Patrick Hathorn from FGG Architects said they are proud to have designed the the K-RITH Tower Building, and it is a great honour to receive recognition from one’s peers for their work. “It was an exciting opportunity to create structures that would transform UKZN’s medical school grounds from a congested collection of dated buildings and parked cars to what it is today. Despite the many challenges imposed by a cramped site and the technically complex nature of the building, the K-RITH project was able to create additional open space on campus and deliver world class facilities to aid in the combat of far greater challenges faced by mankind,” Hathorn said. Professor Busisiwe Ncama, Deputy Vice Chancellor at the College of Health Sciences, said they understand their responsibility and the need to provide a safe, respectable and conducive working environment for all of their staff. “The K-RITH Tower Building is where most of our groundbreaking health research is conducted and we are very proud to receive this prestigious recognition,” said Ncama. The SAIA’s awards of excellence and of merit are the highest local recognition of distinction in architecture and are judged by a national panel of jurors. Of the 61 regional award winners entered into the national competition, five received commendations, 24 were given merit awards, and six were presented with awards for excellence. Daily News