Durban - The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal will elect the provinces top five officials at the Durban University on Friday. While not confirmed, it is believed that suspended chairman, Sihle Zikalala is set to be nominated to the top position unopposed, while provincial convenor Mike Mabuyakhulu will be nominated unopposed to the position of deputy chair. Former provincial spokesperson Mdumiseni Ntuli is the favourite for the coveted and powerful provincial secretary position It comes as the KwaZulu-Natal ANC's second attempt at a provincial conference kicked off late on Thursday with the blessing of the Pietermaritzburg High Court that turned down an urgent interdict by disgruntled members from the Moses Mabhida and Harry Gwala regions who attempted to stop the conference from taking place at the last minute. The conference was opened by ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule who addressed more than 1 000 delegates at the Durban University of Technology. Magashule who was greeted by chants of  "Aaaace" when he took to the podium called for unity to prevail in the party. He slammed those who attempted to stop the conference from going ahead, calling them "anti-revolutionary" and questioning where they were getting the money from to go to court. “The ANC is not a movement of individuals, it is a movement of the entire people, in the ANC we do not use the word ‘I’ but we use the word ‘we’, because we are a movement of the people, a movement of collective leadership.“In the ANC, words and expressions such as ‘I’ and ‘me’ are foreign tendencies. The word ‘I’ in the ranks of such a revolutionary movement is, in fact, counter-revolutionary,” he said. Just hours before the conference was due to start on Thursday, six ANC members - Ntandu Khenisa, Mhlengi Zuma, Thandanani Vezi, Colin Mbuyiselo Mlonzi, Malusi Nhlanakipho Tsaulwayo and France Thebinkosi Dwayisa - approached the Pietermaritzburg High Court with an urgent interdict arguing that the decision to hold the conference was rushed, they were not notified in sufficient time which did not allow their regions to hold a branch general meeting  which was according to the ANC manual. High Court Judge Thoba Poyo-Dlwathi struck the matter off the roll ruling that their argument to delay the conference was insufficient. Daily News