Yesterday’s threats brought the total to eight incidents that police have responded to since last week, half of these at Woolworths stores. An explosive device was also found near Greyville Racecourse, the Vodacom Durban July venue. Ryan Cummings, a security risk analyst at Signal Risk, said it was difficult to speculate why Woolworths appeared to be targeted, but possible reasons could be that someone had a personal vendetta against the company, corporate sabotage, or even disgruntled employees. He said the lack of casualties could be a sign that there was no intent to take lives, or the devices were of low quality. “People should be concerned by these bomb scares and be more vigilant of their surroundings, but this does not mean people should panic as law enforcement is investigating the matters,” he said. Hawks national spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed that yesterday’s bomb threats were a hoax. From Monday, the Hawks had been tasked with investigating these incidents. “There are unscrupulous elements in society hellbent on undermining the rule of law and the peace and security of their fellow citizens,” he said. “The bomb threats were not only an attack on KZN, but the country’s constitution, as they denied people freedom of movement, peace and security, and freedom of association. “Such criminal acts are diverting the attention of law enforcement authorities and emergency personnel from their core mandate of ensuring peace and stability and the safety of citizens.” National police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said people who called in bomb threats could be charged with defeating the ends of justice and faced civil action: “If police use resources to respond to a bomb scare, then the person will face civil charges and have to pay back the money used in responding to the incident.” Naidoo also advised people who saw suspicious packages to immediately call mall security or the centre’s management, or contact the police. Woolworths spokesperson Kirsten Hewett said police had received a tip-off about a suspicious device at the Cornubia mall and “as a precautionary measure, we evacuated our store, along with all the other stores in the mall, to ensure the safety of our people and our customers”, she said. Hewett added that Woolworths had put in place additional protection and detection measures. Daily News