Durban - The bail application for a man accused of raping his 10-year-old stepdaughter, has been postponed. The 43-year-old man appeared in the Verulam Magistrates Court on Monday, where his Legal Aid SA lawyer asked for a postponement. The man’s identity has not been made known to protect the identity of the girl.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The man's defence attorney, Mondli Mthethwa, had asked for the postponement of the charges because the man had been in Verulam since the beginning of the year. He said the man had not been in Verulam prior to that and this was outside of the jurisdiction area of the courts he argued. Mthethwa argued for greater clarity on the charges. Mthethwa rubbished reports that the accused was arrested for rape between 2013 and 2018, when the man had only been living in Verulam for the last two months. State prosecutor, San Barthoo, said this was not a duplication of charges.  She also said they did not have a problem with the matter being postponed.Magistrate Irfan Khalil granted the application and said it was "ill-founded". He said the main reason he will give the postponement was to give the benefit of the doubt to the applicant and not for the reasons Mthethwa gave. The State did not have an issue with the case being postponed until Tuesday. There was also deliberation in the court as to a fixed address for the accused, as the landlord at the property that he was living on prior to his arrest, refused for the man to return to his home. In court, another address was offered but the time to verify the address was requested.      The matter has elicited a large public outcry with dozens of angry Verulam residents diligently attending the case everytime he made an appearance.Various political parties and non-governmental organisations have also been making appearances at the case. Due to the high profile nature of the case, the initial investigating officer of the matter was suspended and could face criminal charges. The stepfather will remain in custody until his next court appearance. Daily News