It has resulted in an application for the area to be declared a disaster area. This came to light at the weekend after the DA released a statement saying the application had been a result of the party pressuring the Ugu Municipality to declare the area a disaster area. Rishigen Viranna, from the DA, said the party had been making numerous requests for the matter to be addressed for years. “It is reaching crisis level,” he said. The application is the latest in a number of water problems the district municipality has faced for more than four years. Some of the problems have been caused by drought, while others have been caused by poor maintenance of facilities and ageing infrastructure. Viranna said they had done an oversight inspection earlier this month. Party delegates saw the Harding Dam was at 15% and that the Weza River had run dry. Viranna said the DA wanted Umgeni Water to take over water management as Ugu Municipality had failed at doing so. It also wanted the district municipality to be put under administration. Disaster area France Zama, Ugu’s spokesperson, rubbished Viranna’s comments. Zama said the reason for the application for uMuziwabantu to be declared a disaster area was because they could no longer afford to send water trucks to it, and needed outside help to keep providing water tankers to the area. He conceded that the Weza River had dried up, which was why water tankers were being used. They had plans to build a dam in the area, but it would take 10 years to build. And at an estimated cost of R1billion, it was beyond what they could afford as the budget for various projects in the area was close to R1bn. He said they had introduced water restrictions about two years before the disaster struck. Msawakhe Mayisela, the spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs, said Ugu exco had decided to escalate the matter to the provincial government, but did not know how long the process to declare Muziwabantu a disaster area would take. “We are urging people to be patient with us,” he said. Mayisela said the crisis was beyond their power, but they were doing all they could, which included putting static water tanks in strategic areas. He added that it was hoped that the Weza Regional Water Supply Scheme would solve their water problems in the future. Daily News