This was alleged by Sbonelo Nzimakwe, a friend of Mkhize’s who was at Mkhize’s rented accommodation in uMlazi’s V-section on Saturday. Mkhize, originally from Impendle, was an engineering student and the deputy chairperson of the ANCYL at ward 88 in uMlazi. Nzimakwe claimed on Tuesday that Mkhize was attacked by brothers Mfanafuthi and Andile Zulu who demanded that Mkhize pay them R500 they had given him to secure a place at the uMlazi Coastal College. Nzimakwe claimed that Andile was in constant contact with Mkhize and they had argued about the money he had paid Mkhize to get a place at the college. Mkhize had told Andile that he would “sort him out” when the college reopened this week, but Andile apparently would not hear of it. “He kept on telling them that he would pay them their money, but they continued to assault him. The older brother held him, while the other one assaulted him. When they let him go, he got into his car. As he reversed to drive away, they opened the door and tried to drag him out of the car. I don’t know how they got hold of his gun, which I think was in the car, and shot him,” Nzimakwe said. On Monday, ANC members, students and community members packed the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court where Andile, 25, and Mfanafuthi Zulu, 29, appeared on charges of murder and possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition. They demanded that the brothers should not be granted bail. According to the police, Mfanafuthi handed himself over to them on Sunday and Andile handed himself over a few hours later. Mkhize’s family said they were saddened by his death. They spoke to Daily News outside the court after the matter was adjourned to July 30 for a formal bail application. His father, Bernard, 67, who had travelled from rural Impendle to uMlazi, said the last time he saw his son was last week when he came home to spend one night. He said he had left the following morning, probably because he had to attend the ANC conference. He was at a funeral of an extended family member in Impendle on Saturday when he received a phone call about his son having been gunned down. “He loved politics and he was a dedicated student. He had a bright future ahead of him,” his distraught father said. His brother, Philani, described Mkhize as a true cadre and a leader who, at such a young age, had many responsibilities and high-profile positions in the ANC. Daily News