Durban - Durban rapper Zakwe launched his third studio album, Cebisa, on a yacht on Thursday night. The album, which was released on Friday in stores and on digital music platforms, was timed for release ahead of the epic Vodacom Durban July weekend. Aboard the La Vue yacht, Zakwe, whose real name is Ntokozo Zakwe,   revealed his body of work which includes 20 tracks with features from prominent rappers including Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest, Beast, Ma-E, Stogie T, AB Crazy, Pro and Musiholiq. In the album, Zakwe also pays tribute to the legendary kwaito star Mapaputsi, where he samples his 90s hit Izinja, with the remake Kleva, which features Mapaputsi with his hoarse voice.      Zakwe, who is now signed to Mabala Noise and Universal Music, aims to surpass gold certified figures with his latest release. The KwaMashu rapper revealed he had worked with a number of young producers to produce the album, including Mpumalanga beatmaker Saspekt. Zakwe hinted his song "More Blessings", which features the award winning Kwesta, could potentially be one of the singles from the album.      Another song which may be a hit for  radio is "Daai Deng", a song that features former Teargas member Ma-E.      Zakwe also took an opportunity to appreciate the love the "hood" was showing musicians in recent years and the love the township shows for artists. In the song "Hood", which features fellow Durban rapper Beast, the 30-year-old rapper pays homage to the townships of KwaMashu, Ntuzuma, Inanda, Umlazi, Chesterville, Clermont, KwaNdengezi, Lamontville, Hammarsdale, Ilovu, Marrianhill and the establishments in those townships, such Artizen, Max, eYadini, Mojos, Skyzer, Tate, Uhuru, Comfort Zone and others. In the song Beast raps humorously that the support from the hood is sky high, like the ceiling at Makro. New Universal Music signee, Durban girl TDK Ma-Cassette, also entertained on the La Vue yacht during Zakwe's launch. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Daily News