The new cameras have been placed along the N3 before the Felix Dlamini (Brickfield) Road on- and off-ramps. There are four cameras fixed to a bracket facing traffic. A set has also been installed on Chris Hani (North Coast) Road near the N2 interchange. eThekwini spokesperson Mandla Nsele said the cameras were strategically placed to assist with tracking hijacked vehicles by monitoring their movements. “The project started around 2016 in an effort to fight crime. The camera’s focus is able to pick up number plate details,” he said. Nsele said the city was rolling out the system in phases. The cameras are being monitored from the Disaster Management building. Metro police officers have been seconded to monitor the footage and deploy response units when necessary. Security companies linked to neighbourhood watch groups have welcomed the initiative. Marshall Security spokesperson Kyle van Reenen applauded the municipality, saying the company had been using similar systems for about two years. “It has been proven highly successful in the fight against crime in the area. Our camera systems have assisted in several arrests with seven being made during our trial period alone,” he said.  Van Reenen said the technology had aided in the arrest and successful prosecution of criminals, and also assisted from a crime intelligence aspect. KZN VIP Unit spokesperson Gareth Naidoo said the system would curb serious crimes and assist police in tracking down vehicles quicker. Zain Soosiwala, eThekwini Secure crime fighters spokesperson, applauded the initiative and said private companies were using the licence-plate recognition cameras to full effect. Steven King, South African Community Crime Watch spokesperson, said it would definitely assist law enforcement. “More eyes, whether by means of technology or spotters on the ground, will absolutely have a huge impact on criminal elements. We applaud any initiative which assists law enforcement in the tracing and apprehension of criminals,” said King who is also involved with the Hillcrest Community Police Forum (CPF). Zain Suliman, of the Moorton CPF, said the cameras must be maintained regularly. “How many are installed, but non-functional? Are the cameras installed in places where it actually adds value? I sat in a meeting where it was confirmed that a few are not working, and to have the cameras functional again it would cost millions. “Fibre-optic cables can be spliced and reconnected. Fibre-optic cables have no value as scrap, so why steal it? To me it’s sabotage so someone can make money off re-cabling,” Suliman said. Notification Blue Security operations director Brian Jackson said automatic number plate recognition cameras were widely used in the security sector because they provided notification of number plates picked up at crime scenes. “This makes it possible to alert patrolling armed response officers and the police to suspicious vehicles so that swift action can be taken. The cameras use infrared illumination and optical character recognition to recognise and analyse vehicle number plates,” he said. Jackson said advanced systems could be set up at secure residential and business complexes to allow entry and parking access to vehicles with recognised registration plates. One advantage, Jackson said, was that suspicious registration plates could also be uploaded on to the camera system to ensure that a real time alert would be sent to the police and security company control centres. “We have been involved in several cases where our camera systems have led to the identification and swift arrest of suspects from housebreakers to armed robbers. “There was a recent case in La Lucia where our Blue Eye in the Sky street surveillance cameras detected a suspicious vehicle registration plate that was successfully linked to a business armed robbery,” Jackson said. Daily News