Durban - Tributes are pouring in for  Durban eco-warrior Caroline Reid who died in hospital after a car collided into the bike she was travelling on this week. Rescue Care paramedics operations director Garrith Jamieson said Reid was a passenger on a scooter when the collision occurred at the intersection of Stalwart Simelane and Sandile Thusi roads on Tuesday. "Paramedics arrived on the scene to find the bike under the vehicle. The bike passenger had been thrown from the bike on impact and was found several metres away. She had sustained critical injuries," he said. Reid was stabilised and placed on a manual ventilator on the scene before being rushed to hospital. She died on Wednesday. Jamieson said the other biker sustained minor injuries. "At this stage, the events leading up to the collision are unknown. However, SAPS were on the scene and will be investigating further," he added. Several of Reid's friends took to their Facebook pages to express their condolences. Dale Johnson‎ of the organisation Clean Blue Lagoon said: "She was a true friend and supporter of #CleanBlueLagoon. Caroline Reid you have been taken far too soon, you had so much more to do and help protect. My earliest memory of you was helping out at the weekend clean up of late July/early August 2016 (after the floods) - you and Hein dragged the huge 1CBM bags of rubbish along the beach one after another, no bag was too big a problem. If it weren’t for you I think we would still be there (and the rubbish). Rest in peace in the eternal plastic free ocean". Warwick Bruce Chapman said: "Remembering my old friend Caroline Reid who tragically passed away in an accident. Everyone who met you loved your cheer and laughter. You were a great warrior.  You were loved and will be missed. Rest well. Swim in the ocean daily. And never stop laughing". Coastwatch KZN said: "The KZN marine community mourns the tragic loss of one of our stalwarts, Caroline Reid, who worked tirelessly and voluntarily to put words into action to clean up our marine environment, co-ordinating a marine waste network. A dedicated marine conservationist with a soft spot for rescue dogs, the world is poorer for her untimely parting. A true conservation warrior. Our marine community is truly saddened". Phillip Dreyer said: "Caroline Reid you will be missed by everyone that loves the ocean... always willing to organise beach and underwater clean-ups... always ready to help anyone that needed it... always ready to take another dog into your home... my deepest condolences". Douw Steyn said: "Today is a very sad day for me, our KwaZulu Natal Marine Waste Network and the environmental fraternity. Our young Eco-warrior, pellet monitor, diver, exco member, friend - Caroline Reid. We will all miss you so much a little lady but a big environmental warrior". Daily News 