Durban- Nkanyso Makhanya may be 24-years-old, but the young KwaZulu-Natal television presenter is making a difference by telling everyone and anyone he knows and who cares to listen to him on his social media about the importance of protecting women and valuing them. Makhanya, a youth programme presenter on Craz-e on eTV  will join other men from around the country for the #100MenMarch that will take place from  Church Square to the Union Buildings in Pretoria next Tuesday. The  march organised by different government departments, coincides with the centenary celebrations for former president Nelson Mandela and Struggle activist Mama Albertina Sisulu, both who envisaged a society where women were protected and valued. The march is expected to draw at least 100 men from various sectors of society, such as government, business, labour, faith-based organisations, non-profit and media organisations to stop the abuse of women and children. The aim to renew the commitment to teach young boys about the importance of the valuing and respecting young girls and women. Makhanya says these values are important to him. Raised by a single mother Makhanya says he is eternally grateful for the way his mother, Hlengiwe, raised him after his parents separated when he was young. His mother, he said took on the role of both parents, instilling in him strong values and respect. “I was lucky to be taught such values as a young boy. I experienced abuse through my friends and neighbours whose mothers were subjected to physical and verbal abuse. My friends would tell me about this and as a young boy, I could not do anything about it. Using the name that I have made for myself, I use my social media platforms to drive awareness,” he said. He said the recent incidents of young men throwing their lives away after murdering their girlfriends does not only have devastating circumstances for the families of the women whose lives they ended, but their actions have devastating consequences on their own families when they are sent to jail for a very long time. He encouraged other men to play their part by using social media responsibly to spread the awareness about real issues. “For me attending the march means doing my part as a responsible man and I strongly believe that teaching young boys the kind of values that my mother taught me as a young boy would help in building an abuse-free society,” said Makhanya. Phumla Williams, Acting Director-General of Government Communication and Information System said various formations will in the spirit of #ThumaMina heed the call by President Cyril Ramaphosa that all citizens should take a stand to stop violence against women and children. “Government calls on all men to join the #100MenMarch and boldly declare that violence against women and children will not be tolerated in their respective environment or communities. The #100MenMarch will be a motivating force to ensure that men break the chain of abuse” she said. Daily News