On Sunday, Gumede told  Independent Media that she was marching on with her fight against corruption and service delivery, instead of quitting. “All I can say is that I am as free as a dove to continue doing my job, which no one is going to stop me from doing,” she said. The City Press had reported that the Hawks were investigating an integrity forensic solution report which alleged that Gumede had summoned a senior water and sanitation unit manager to her home to tell him who should be given a R25 million tender to hire and distribute chemical toilets. DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said he took the report to the Hawks in March for investigation. After the allegations, the EFF in the council said it would table a motion of a vote of no-confidence in Gumede, but the ANC in eThekwini said its councillors would defend her. Gumede said the Hawks had not informed her of the investigation. “Therefore, how can I be aware of it? Maybe I will comment after two days after establishing what is happening.” Opposition parties said they suspected there was a connection between the report and allegations that officials from the auditor-general (AG) had been threatened off auditing the city’s financial affairs. However, Gumede said she had nothing to do with the intimidation of AG staff. “I hear that people who have been committing corruption are concerned about my fight against corruption, and I will continue fighting corruption,” said Gumede. Mncwango said on March19, he told the Hawks it was no use to have integrity forensic solution exposing corruption if action was not taken. “We are relieved that the Hawks are doing something about what we met them for. Our discussion was around the fact that we are getting tired of reading these reports, but nothing happens about that,” said Mncwango. ANC regional secretary Bheki Ntuli said the region had confidence that Gumede has not breached supply chain processes. “As far as we know the mayor is running a clean government,” said Ntuli. EFF councillor Bonginkosi Ngiba said his party had been aware of the allegation, but was still gathering evidence. “The involvement of Delangokubona Business Forum in tenders makes it clear that something is wrong,” he said. He said they were seeking approval from the EFF leadership to table a motion of no-confidence on Gumede when the full council met on May 31. IFP councillor Mdu Nkosi said: “Cogta (Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs) MEC should not ignore this report because if nothing is done, eThekwini would end under administration,” said Nkosi. KwaZulu-Natal Cogta spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube had noted with concern the allegations against Gumede, and she would issue a comprehensive statement on Monday. Daily News