Thabani Mzolo appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday for the murder of his ex-girlfriend, 21-year-old Zolile Khumalo, at the Lonsdale Hotel, one of MUT’s student residences. Khumalo was shot in her room on Tuesday. “We are still grappling with understanding how the rules were flouted,” said Mbali Mkhize, MUT’s head of communications and marketing. Mkhize said visitors were supposed to be searched, and were also not allowed to enter the residences after 6pm. She said yesterday that MUT was planning a crisis meeting with various stakeholders including the newly appointed vice-chancellor, Dr Enoch Duma Malaza. However, Mkhize could not say when the meeting was to take place. She said the meeting would deal with security problems at the student residences. Sandile Dlamini, MUT’s student representative council (SRC) leader, said security had long been an issue at the institution. He said security should be strong at all residences and not just at a select few. Dlamini said he was deeply affected by what happened. “I just couldn’t believe it,” Dlamini said. He said the university should be taking over security at MUT’s student residences. “You can’t have a situation where a person enters a residence with a gun,” Dlamini said. He said what made it worse was that the accused was not an MUT student. After the incident, Dlamini was apparently told by many students about how they were being abused by their partners. “Women are not punching bags,” Dlamini said. “I question why many such incidents take place in residences and people don’t come out to speak about them.” When he had heard of the shooting, he had been in the building dealing with another matter where a man had entered a room and beat his girlfriend and her roommate, and broke their phones. Dlamini said students were very angry about Khumalo’s death. Mkhize said they had not received any formal complaints from the SRC and yesterday was the first time she had heard of ­complaints about security at MUT residences. In the packed courtroom, Mzolo smiled as photographers took pictures of him. He is facing charges of murder, and illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. The matter was adjourned until May 10 for further investigations. Daily News