The KZN Environmental Outlook Report was compiled to provide objective, accurate and scientifically credible information about the conditions and prospects of the environment. The 257-page document focused on climate change, air quality management, biodiversity and ecosystem health, land modification, fresh water resources, marine and coastal resources, economics and human settlements, and waste. Zikalala said the province was vulnerable to climate change along the coast where erosion was taking place as a result of the sea-level rise and an increase in frequency and intensity of heavy storms. He said this report reflected how far the province had come in terms of environmental monitoring and governance, and contained trends, predictions and actions that could be taken to improve and safeguard the environment in which we live. “From 2007, storms have caused R250 million in damage to property, and the costs associated with storms are expected to increase as the frequency and intensity of these extreme weather events increases,” Zikalala said. In addition, the revenue for the agricultural sector in KZN will reduce considerably by the end of the century as a result of increased temperatures and reduced rainfall,” he said. During the compilation of the report, it was discovered that the rates of habitat loss and land degradation in the province had increased in the past 25 years and threatened the survival of species and the maintenance of key ecological processes. The marine and coastal ecosystems were also threatened, Zikalala said. “A large number of our coastal habitats continue to be under pressure from coastal development, pollution, resource extraction and mining. “Discharge of effluent via pipelines, and urbanisation, industrialisation and climate change are the drivers of marine and the coast pollution,” he said. Zikalala said issues highlighted in the report would form part of the budget address on May 15, and that financial allocations to deal with each of the issues would be announced then. To fight illegal dumping, the department has come up with the strategy to have more environmental management inspectors. Zama Mathenjwa, director of the department’s environmental affairs, said they had challenges with the air monitoring stations in Durban. “At some point, we had maintenance challenges due to the sophisticated nature of the instruments used to monitor air quality,” Mathenjwa said. According to the report, the environmental changes may negatively influence ecosystem services, particularly in the socio-economic environment, and these impacts should be reduced or mitigated through policies and programmes (responses). Desmond D’Sa, co-ordinator of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, said there were no guarantees that the plan would bring change in how people treated the environment. “The recycling initiatives that will benefit local communities is the starting point in saving the environment. The monitoring stations have not been functioning due to lack of servicing and this has led to the unavailability of air quality data,” D’Sa said. “The high level of emissions from the trucking industry also contributes to global warming, so it would be interesting to know what plans are there to deal with this ,” D’Sa said. He said the timber plantations were also “sucking up” the much-needed water. Daily News