The statement had implied the hospital management was not doing enough to give patients proper care; however, hospital staff disagreed. During a visit to the Church of Scotland Hospital in uMsinga, Dhlomo found patients sleeping on the benches and on the floor waiting for overnight transport to Pietermaritzburg hospitals. Hospital staff, who did not want to be named, said it was Dhlomo’s prerogative as the political head of the department to ensure there was sufficient room for outpatients. “He must not play Mr Perfect here because he knows the situation in this hospital. We run short of resources here from time to time and this hospital, being a rural facility, doesn’t get the attention given to bigger facilities,” said an employee. “There isn’t enough room to accommodate people who are waiting to be transported to other hospitals. It’s not a question of ignoring our patients, but one of not having a separate area where they can wait for the evening,” the employee said. In the statement, Dhlomo called for the hospital managers to “take charge” of the health facilities entrusted to them and ensure patients were treated humanely and with dignity. He ordered the hospital management to find a decent place to house patients who were sleeping on the benches and on the floor, waiting for transport to hospitals in Pietermaritzburg the next day. Among those waiting was Mamizi Mkhize, a breast cancer patient. “These patients came here to be reviewed. District hospitals provide transport for them to tertiary hospitals. I saw a patient, Mamizi Mkhize, who has advanced cancer and was due to go for further treatment at Greys Hospital. “I found her kneeling on the bench as she said she couldn’t put down her pelvis on the concrete floor. It was obvious if I had not arrived there, she was going to remain kneeling for the whole night,” Dhlomo said. “I urge management at all hospitals to report if they cannot house our patients, so that we can intervene.” The staff hit back at Dhlomo, ­saying it was “not so noble” of him to issue a public statement on the issue. “The patients he found at the outpatient department came from the far-flung areas of uMsinga and they had no choice but to spend the better part of the evening here waiting for the transport. “We can’t put them in wards because the wards are so tiny. “If we do that they could easily contract diseases they did not have on their arrival. “This is not a management and staff members’ problem. Government should be dealing with the infrastructure issues,” they said. Another employee said: “There are wards that were closed off many years ago. These wards should be converted into lodging areas where people can wait for their transport.” Daily News