“It is the routine consultative process required constitutionally between the commission and the head of state in the determination of the electoral timetable, but the first thing is we give the technical side of it. “The constitution says one minute past midnight after the end of a five-year term there is a 90-day window within which (elections) can be called,” IEC chairperson Glen Mashinini told the media on Tuesday. He was in Parliament leading a delegation of the IEC to brief the home affairs portfolio committee on their preparedness to conduct elections. Mashinini told MPs the general elections were scheduled to take place between May and August 2019. He said the IEC was required to be ready for elections within 90 days after May 8, 2019. “But the decision on who decides the date of the election is the prerogative of the head of state. Processes are also under way where the head of state must make a decision in consultation with the commission,” Mashinini said. “It would be irresponsible for me to raise any sensational speculation on this critical issue. We are working on the basis of a timetable,” he said. Briefing the committee earlier, commissioner Reverend Bongani Finca told MPs their presentation had not factored in any consideration of dissolution of Parliament or calling of an early election. “It has been made purely on the normal process of election management,” Finca said. During their meeting with the MPs, the IEC urged Parliament to speed up the processing of amendments to electoral laws ahead of the elections. Mashinini said their time-table for the elections had certain matters that were critical to their operations. “This is in the hands of Parliament; in particular the issue of legislative amendments we shared with you. We would very much appreciate, as has been the case before, if the honourable members could help that process to be expedited and we don’t drop the date,” Mashinini said. The election work had a knock-on effect and one step could have other unintended consequences. “So far nothing yet has raised any alarms, but the honourable members must be collectively vigilant with us in as far as the process of finalising the amendments that we envisage for this next coming elections,” Mashinini said. The IEC’s senior manager for electoral matters, Granville Abrahams, said an electoral amendment bill was being considered by Minister of Home Affairs Malusi Gigaba. Abrahams said the IEC wanted to remove restrictions in the registration and voting of mental health patients and that the Electoral Court determine party leadership disputes. They also wanted to remove the requirement to register in person and increase the voting missions abroad. Abrahams said the proposed legislation would deal with time frames to lodge objections on the voters roll. “We want to identify a specific window ahead of an election to open the voters roll for inspection, entertain objections and deal with them.” Daily News