Durban - Parliament has condemned the attack on a Verulam mosque on Thursday during which three armed men stabbed three worshippers - killing one - and set the mosque library on fire before fleeing. The attack occurred shortly after 2pm at the Imam Hussain Mosque in Ottawa. Among those who was attacked was the mosque's Moulana. Two of the men had their throats slit and the third was gutted. The motive for the attack is unknown. Francois Beukman, chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police called the attack shocking and urged the police to prioritise the investigation. “A mosque is a religious institution, and South Africa’s Constitution guarantees and protects the right to religious practices,” Beukman said. “This kind of attack on three innocent people is totally unjustified. We want our communities to live in harmony, practising their religions without fear.” Beukman said everything should be done to arrest the perpetrators, and called on anyone with information to contact law enforcement agencies. It comes after one of the men who had his throat slit died in hospital, according to paramedics. police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala said police have launched a manhunt for the perpetrators. "They allegedly attacked three people and stabbed them. They further set certain rooms alight and fled in their getaway vehicle. The victims were taken to hospital for medical attention. The motive of the attack on the three men is unknown at this stage. Verulam police are investigating three counts of attempted murder and arson. No arrests have been made at this stage," she said. Jay Kanniappen, Divisional Commander for eThekwini Fire and Rescue North said that when firefighters arrived at the scene smoke was coming out of the mosque. "The scene was chaotic with people running around. Upon investigation we found that the library in the mosque was on fire," Kanniappen said. "The fire was confined to that room. We extinguished the fire and opened up the top floor for ventilation. The cause of the fire is not known. As the mosque is now a crime scene, it has been handed over to police for further investigation and comment," he said. Daily News