They have also indicated that government has been dragging its feet for far too long on recurring problems like mismanagement in procurement, filling vacant teaching posts and taking care of Grade R teachers who have not been paid. Professor Chika Sehoole, an education analyst, said his general impression of the KZN education budget was that it was “a political speech”. “There wasn’t much detail on issues that needed further detail. On matters of Early Childhood Development (ECD, Grade R) this should have been taken care of as a matter of priority. Why is it taking so long? They commit themselves to developing ECD, but then they don’t pay teachers. Why?” Another analyst, Professor Labby Ramrathan, said: “Achieving universal access is commendable, but the quality of learning experience in Grade R classes is being compromised by both the low budget allocated and administrative inefficiencies.” Ramrathan said the main concern expressed by the MEC was in terms of managing procurements, and is an ongoing issue that is compromising the functioning of schools. “This is an administrative function, and clearly there seems to be an efficiency issue related to procurement and supply change management resulting in the extended delays in procurement and payments. We should have learnt by now how to be efficient in such management, and if we are making the same mistakes, then there is clearly a capacity issue.” He said the overall 7% increase in the budget was expected but not enough. “For example, the R2.1 billion for infrastructure is certainly not enough for addressing the dilapidated state of many of the schools in KZN. Most classrooms, especially in rural and township schools, need urgent maintenance in basic things like replacing broken windows and doors, electricity connections to classrooms and floors of classrooms.” Sehoole said he found some areas of the budget pertaining to the matric pass rate and high school education surprising. “I was surprised that only two districts reached a 100% pass rate last year in a province as big as KZN. The department must pay attention to supporting schools so that the pass rate improves. I also noticed the vast difference in the number of primary schools (3821) and high schools (1608), which means access to primary school education is being prioritised, but not secondary schools. Which means they are planning for a high dropout rate.” Sehoole also gave the department a pat on the back for its plans to focus on schools with a 0% pass rate, but said he thought its goal of achieving an 80% pass rate this year was unattainable. “If you only had two districts with a 100% pass rate last year, that is going to be a tall order.” Daily News