Durban - Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will marry at Windsor on Saturday, marking the sixteenth Royal Wedding celebrated in the castle grounds since 1863. Recently - with the help of the Royal Collection Trust -  the royal family’s official Instagram page (@theroyalfamily) reflected on the other Royal couples who have chosen Windsor for their special day. Prince Harry’s I-Do date with the popular American actress (of tv drama "Suits"-fame) has been making news ever since their engagement was announced on November 27 last year. And with the big upon us; the couple, their imminent wedding and matters around nuptials have been trending and making news across the globe. Prince Harry and Markle will wed at St George’s Chapel in the grounds of Windsor Castle (where Prince Harry was christened) on Saturday. Prince Harry has chosen his brother The Duke of Cambridge, Prince William, to be his Best Man. Around 600 people have been invited to the service at St George's Chapel. In addition to this the Prince and Markle have invited 2,640 members of the public into the grounds of Windsor Castle to share in on their special day. Here's a throwback of note offering some insight into the historical weddings that have taken place at the very same place where Prince Harry and his soon to be wifie will exchange vows.     In just over two weeks' time, Prince Harry and Ms. Meghan Markle will marry at Windsor – the sixteenth Royal Wedding celebrated in the castle grounds since 1863. In recent times, The Earl and Countess of Wessex were married at St. George's Chapel in 1999 and @ClarenceHouse The Prince of Wales and The Duchess of Cornwall were married at Windsor Guildhall before A Service of Prayer and Dedication in the chapel. With the help of the @Royal_Collection_Trust, here's a look back at the other Royal couples who have chosen Windsor for their special day. You can read more by following the link in bio. #RoyalWedding A post shared by  The Royal Family (@theroyalfamily) on May 4, 2018 at 1:47am PDT  Daily News