Durban - From Honiton lace to Orange Blossom, Royal Wedding Dresses over the years have encompassed tradition, whilst still embracing changing fashions. With the help of The Royal Collection Trust, The Royal Family's officials have put together a gallery on Instagram (@theroyalfamily) where you can see some of the dresses worn by Royal Brides over the years. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle will wed at St George’s Chapel in the grounds of Windsor Castle, where Prince Harry was christened, on Saturday. The popular American actress - of the hit tv drama series "Suits", among other performances - is noted for her unique fashion sense and the question on everybody's mind is - what style of dress will she go for? Low back or maybe no back!? - if she dares! Will Markle opt for a traditional gown or one that is more on trend? Will she go for sexy or chic… or maybe sexy chic? The wedding service will begin at St George's Chapel at midday and will be conducted by the Dean of Windsor, The Rt Revd. David Conner. The Most Revd. and Rt Hon. Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury, will officiate as the couple make their marriage vows. On The Royal Family's Instagram page they said while the details of Markle's wedding dress won't be revealed until Saturday, with the help of The Royal Collection Trust, they've compiled a gallery of what other Royal Brides have worn on their wedding day. As the world eagerly awaits Markle's big dress reveal, here's a flashback on previous gowns that featured at Royal Weddings over the years.     While the details of Ms. Meghan Markle's Wedding Dress won't be revealed until Saturday, with the help of the @royal_collection_trust, take a look at what other Royal Brides have worn on their Wedding Day. From Honiton lace to Orange Blossom, Royal Wedding Dresses over the years have encompassed tradition, whilst still embracing changing fashions. Follow the link in our bio to find out more about each dress. A post shared by  The Royal Family (@theroyalfamily) on May 16, 2018 at 9:17am PDT  Daily News