The roadshow was initiated in February, in line with the city’s aim to maintain service delivery as its main goal. Mayor Zandile Gumede visited the Bridge City Shopping Mall leg of the roadshow. “We want to give our customers the opportunity to be able to engage with staff from Revenue, Water, Electricity, Sizakala Customer Care and the City Integrity and Investigation Unit, who are on site and online during these roadshows,” said Gumede. Qhamukile Zakwe, of KwaMashu, had heard about the roadshow and thought it was a great initiative. She spoke to officials about her high electricity bill. “For months now, I have been getting charged R500 to R800 or more every month on my electricity bill which is ridiculous because I used to pay only R300,” said Zakwe. She said that when she had previously enquired about the issue, she was told that a neighbour was using her electricity. The issue was dealt with, but later began again. After she spoke to an official at the roadshow, she was told the matter would be investigated and an official would be sent to the location. An Ntuzuma resident said she had been paying off her water bill, as agreed to with the municipality. She claimed she was still receiving a water bill for more than R20000. “There are only four of us in the house so I don’t understand how the bill could be so high,” she said. The mayor said: “We will be introducing more measures of debt relief for the poor, but our stance is that people must pay. We are here to say to those who received wrong bills, let’s deal with this once and for all. There is nothing for mahhala.” In Musgrave, the roadshow team had customers seeking more information on the electronic services. Malindi Dlamini, at Bridge City, said she was shocked by some of the issues people had been dealing with for months without reporting them but she also understood that this could be because customer services were sometimes too far from where they lived. “This initiative is great because we get to go to the people - some people walked here or took just one taxi, so I think the project is great,” Dlamini said. Daily News