They still do not know how their 7-month-old child died at an informal day-care centre run by a local woman. Distraught father Seboda Mosemene, of Welbedacht, said it had been more than a month since their only child, Sikhosana, had died. Mosemene, from Lesotho, said the department was not interested in helping them get closure over their son’s death and said they had spent thousands of rand in preparation for the funeral and the transportation of the boy’s body to Lesotho. “When we dropped him off in the morning (on March 26), he was fine. My wife and I were at work when we were told to go back to the day-care centre. All we were told was that Sikhosana had died and only the post mortem would be able to reveal the cause of death. “We cannot bury him because we don’t have the body. When we went to the mortuary two days after Sikhosana’s body was taken there, we were shocked when we were told his body could not be found.” Mosemene said he had arranged for the body’s transportation to Lesotho, at a cost of R9000. However, the mortuary could not produce the child’s remains when they went to fetch them. The Mosemenes spent Thursday, March 29, at the mortuary waiting for the body and slept outside the premises in their car. “The mortuary manager, who introduced himself as a Mr Ntsele, had assured us two days earlier that they would search for our son’s body. We are shattered. My wife has since been admitted to hospital back home for about a week. She has lost it. “We had already hired tents, bought groceries and sold two cows in preparation for the funeral. All that has gone to waste and the health department will not tell us how our child disappeared. There was no counselling offered and we don’t know the cause of death.” Ntsele did not deny the incident, but would not comment further. “As a responsible official, I can’t comment on this. You have to follow proper channels via the communications unit. It’s not that we won’t give out information, but proper channels must be followed.” An employee who asked to remain anonymous for fear of reprisals, said the mortuary was better run under the police department. The employee said operations at the Pinetown Mortuary had “gone south” since the health department took over the facilities in 2006. “My heart goes out to this family. What’s more painful is that these people are taken advantage of because they are not educated and they are not South African citizens . I might be wrong, but that’s the impression I get when looking at the events leading up to the baby’s body going missing. “I understand there was nothing written in the OB (occurrence book). There’s no urgency in resolving this and this poor family does not know where their child’s body is,” said the employee. He said mortuary staff worked under strenuous conditions and that security was lax. During the night shift, only two people were on duty, as opposed to four as had been the case in the past. The Pinetown facility serviced about 13 police stations. “We attend up to the Msunduzi area. “When it’s night shift, if there’s an incident, the two workers on duty go together, and this has led to many delays because while they’re away on a call, another body comes in and there is no one to process it. About eight to 10 bodies are processed a day,” he said. He said that the security guard at the gate sat in a run-down Wendy house and there was no safe in which to keep firearms or any other weapons because they were not allowed on the premises. Health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo on Sunday referred the Daily News to his department’s communications unit. SAPS provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said had not responded to questions at the time of publishing.