This comes before the full council’s budget meeting on Thursday. A report tabled at Exco on Tuesday outlined the details of the increase and the implementation date to prevent under-recovery of fare income by the operator (Tansnat). According to the report, about 50 000 passengers are dependent on the bus system daily. It is funded through passenger fare income, the subsidy from the national Budget received via the provincial government as well as a contribution from council funding. Indicators The report stated that an independent economic assessment was done annually to inform the recommended fare increase based on economic indicators. In June last year, an 8% fare increase was also implemented. In order to prevent negative effects on vulnerable groups such as pupils, pensioners and people with disabilities, the existing fare concessions would be retained to ensure that fares remained affordable, the report read. Thami Manyathi, head of the eThekwini Transport Authority, said an assessment on all the costs of running the service was done to get to the proposed increase. “By comparison, other bus operators around the city are implementing a 10% increase,” he said. The city has been in and out of court with Tansnat over payment for services and it is not clear if the issues between the two parties have been resolved. On numerous occasions there have been strikes by bus drivers as well as the buses running out of fuel. Nicole Graham, DA eThekwini caucus leader, rejected the bus fare hike. She said a report tabled at Exco in April stated that Tansnat was the city’s top debtor, allegedly owing R206 million. “The budget report stated that the debts were due to unpaid depot lease charges, security charges, ticket roll charges, repairs and maintenance and security charges. The amount owed also included R15 million per month to lease the buses. “However, the report on the fare increases indicates many of these costs being covered by Tansnat and the reason why fares should be increased.” Graham said this further compounded the confusion that had existed for some time and should have long been resolved between the city and Tansnat. “Who owes who, what and when will it be resolved? The request for fare increases also includes a staggering R3 800 000 ‘directors salary’. Anyone who is managing a service like this does not deserve that kind of money from eThekwini’s coffers,” Graham said. “Until a full report on the monies owed and a way forward is presented to the city’s executive committee, and until such time as Durban Transport begins to run an effective service for Durban’s commuters, the DA won’t be supporting any fare increases,” she said. Mdu Nkosi, the lone IFP councillor at Exco, also did not support the report. Krish Kumar, deputy city manager - treasury, said in terms of Section 25 of the agreement signed with 
Tansnat, an annual increase had to be implemented. He said the original lease entered into was on a month-to-month basis until the city resolved the issue of the establishment of a municipal entity. Tariff “We will finalise the issue of who owes who. About two years ago, we did not approve a tariff increase and the operator took us to court and we ended up paying the costs,” Kumar said. Moffat Mbonane, general manager at Tansnat Durban, said they had not informed commuters about the fare hike. “Last year we advertised in newspapers and we had notices in our tables (bus timetables). This year, we can’t tell them (commuters) because the council has not confirmed the proposed percentage. “I was not aware that the increase will kick in in June. We have notified the council of our intention and now we are waiting for their response confirming the proposal,” Mbonane said. Pensioners and students will not be affected by the increase. The Active Citizens’ Movement said the fare increase was not justified. Ben Madokwe, the movement’s provincial secretary, said the city and the operator needed to sort out the poor service first. Daily News