These were among the demands from a group of about 80 protesters who gathered at the Department of Education’s Acton Road offices in Umbilo on Monday. The disgruntled crowd said they had reached boiling point over the mismanagement of the school’s money that has been reported to department officials from as long ago as 2013. As a result, they said, there was no money to fix the school which remained in disrepair, some School Governing Body (SGB) employed teachers had not been paid and some parents had been handed over to lawyers for allegedly not paying school fees, which they maintained they had paid. According to an audit report commissioned by the SGB to locate the missing money, more than R500 000 in school funds had been mismanaged. “When pupils pay their fees at the office, different receipt books are used and then we are told the fees were not paid and there’s no proof of payment,” said Grade 10 pupil Teddy ­Ngcongo. “We need our chairs and windows fixed, we want proper sporting activities and computer equipment. That money can help with all of this.” Yola Peterson, a parent who has children in Grades 11 and 12 at the school, said they had had enough. “We want proper feedback on the missing money and we want to know what the Department of Education is doing about this misuse of funds. Who is going to be held accountable?” The crowd demanded the immediate removal of the school’s principal, Rose Fredericks. Sphamandla Khomo, spokesperson for the Congress of SA Students (and a former pupil at the school), said they had been trying to get “justice” in the matter for the past five years.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “There has been a lot of misconduct reported to the Department of Education since 2013 - misconduct by the principal and the school management team. “Pupils have not received reports and important matriculation documentation has not been signed off on, where pupils have been accused of not paying fees. Pupils cannot be held accountable for matters between the school and parents.” Khomo said while the principal had been suspended for a while last year, she was back. “We want the department to tell us what action they are taking - and against whom. And if they don’t take proper action any time soon, we will shut down the school.” Cosas gave The Daily News a copy of the interim audit report. Among other findings, the report stated that bank statements were outstanding for January, February, May, June and October 2017. It also revealed instances where large sums of money was deposited, but no receipt books recorded the amount collected. Further, for money that was receipted, no deposits were made. Where monies were receipted, but only partially deposited, the balance of the deposit was unaccounted for. “We ask the department to look into these findings. If they want to bring in their own investigators, we ask that they look into these findings as well. “And we want them to lay criminal charges against the culprits,” said Khomo. The principal declined to comment yesterday on the allegations made against her and referred the Daily News to the department for comment. The Daily News had sent a detailed list of questions to the department, but received a short response. Department spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi said: “The meeting resolved that the new school governing body needs to collect and collate information. Another meeting will be sitting this week to seek a way forward collectively. “The matter is being pursued by the department.” Daily News