On Friday, the community held a meeting to build a case. A retired judge, a magistrate, and a former sheriff of the court were invited by concerned stakeholders to advise residents on their rights. “We asked these experts to come in to help us see how best we can restore litigation methods and how to negotiate to bring interest rates down,” said Maureen Rambhadursing, deputy director of the Poor Flat Dwellers’ Association. The fight of residents at Sydenham Heights to keep their homes has made news headlines over several years. In 2016, the Daily News reported how financial mismanagement caused them to be millions of rand in arrears. Residents have been unable to pay their levies because some are unemployed and others are pensioners. The levies were paid to service the debt owed to people who manage the three blocks of flats. These flats are owned by people who bought council-owned flats at rock-bottom prices from early 2000 under the government’s extended benefit scheme. Many residents claimed they were bullied into buying their flats, and were not told the truth about sectional title living and related costs, leading to many facing eviction. Rambhadursing said residents were not advised correctly on the loans. Activist Desmond D’Sa said Friday’s meeting was just the start of a bigger process: “We are looking at taking on cases now through public interest lawyers to challenge the way people are being lured into taking loans against their properties in this country and then losing their homes over debt. People don’t know their rights and this is the problem.” He said the issue was widespread at many of the former municipal-owned properties which were privatised. Desre Dewaal, a trustee on the Sydenham Heights’ board, said the meeting was a stepping stone for poor flat dwellers: “We are looking at how best we can take on these departments that have failed us. We want to show other poor flat dwellers that they also have rights and can move forward.” Rambhadursing urged residents from other communities who were in similar predicaments to call them: “If we can prevent a body corporation from taking a loan they cannot afford, we want to help.” Call Rambhadursing or D’Sa at 031 468 1257. Daily News