She and others participated on Tuesday in a peaceful protest by the local branch of the SA Network of People Who Use Drugs (Sanpud). The protest, which began at the KZNSA Art Gallery and proceeded to the TB/HIV Care Association offices in Umbilo, gathered a crowd of more than 50 people, a portion of which were drug users. Marks said the protest was to raise awareness about the eThekwini Municipality’s decision to suspend the NSP in the first week of this month, which she felt was a violation of people’s human rights. She claimed the reasons behind the suspension had to do with trade by-laws that the TB/HIV Care Association had to comply with as well as the used syringes found along the beachfront. “We don’t know where those syringes came from. People use needles for a lot of different reasons like insulin shots and there is a hospital right by the beach,” said Marks. The TB/HIV Care Association has been the pick-up and drop-off location for the more than 1 200 drug users benefiting from the distribution of the needles and syringes since 2015, as part of the NSP. TB/HIV Care Association site manager Kalvanya Padayachee said users reliant on the needles and syringes would now be forced to share needles or buy them from pharmacies. Simbongile Mdletshe, who has been a part of the NSP since last year, said he felt the suspension was unfair. “We clean up the dirty needles. Every time we are given new packs of needles, it comes with a small bin where we can keep the used needles until we go back to TB/HIV (Care Association) to get a new batch,” he said. The pack given to the users consist of 14needles, sterile water, alcohol swabs and cotton wool. According to Padayachee, if a client brought back three dirty needles, they were given three new ones. A drug user, who did not want to be named, felt the public lacked understanding of the importance of the NSP. “The programme is not just about getting needles. When we come here, we get advice on the importance of trying to get clean. This is our support system,” he said. “Just because I am on drugs, does that now mean I deserve to get HIV or hepatitis? No,” he argued. Malusi Mbatha, chairperson of Durban’s branch of Sanpud, said he had a history of drug use, and that as a network they were trying to stand up for the rights of drug users. “Everyone has the right to basic services, but we are not even allowed to go to clinics for help because of the way we look and the stigma around drug users,” he said. The municipality confirmed yesterday that a statutory compliance notice was served to the TB/HIV Care Association to discontinue issuing needles. The municipality said it had to do with the association needing to apply for a scheduled trade permit, which the organisation was working on. “The municipality’s main concern is the risk of exposure of the wider community to inappropriately discarded needles and syringes,” read the statement. It said the suspension would be in place until the NGO could demonstrate that the programme could run in a manner that would not pose a risk to the community. Daily News