Durban - An alleged drug peddler was stabbed to death and a bystander wounded during a shoot-out between rival drug lords in Wentworth, south of Durban. According to residents, the stabbing was the result of a shoot-out between feuding drug gangs in the notorious Hime Street flats on Monday that was captured on a cellphone camera. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said a man was stabbed during an altercation and died at the scene. Zwane said one suspect was arrested and charged with murder. A police source said the alleged drug dealer died a few meters from where he was stabbed after a fight broke out at a nearby tuckshop. "They were not happy with just killing him. They wanted to kill more of their rival dealers. That is when one of the guys came to the street with a gun and fired shots. The flats are clustered and busy. You bound to hit someone. All the suspects involved in the shooting live on the same road," the source said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The gunmen man walked along the street which is occupied by blocks of flats and fired several rounds from a gun towards a crowd of people. One of the men in the crowd shot back while residents and children that were playing outside took cover. The source said a bystander was shot in the thigh by a stray bullet. A resident's car that was parked in the driveway between the flats was struck by bullets. In the video, you can hear the sound of gunshots and see a man walking backwards, with a gun in his hand. A frantic mother screams in the background asking "where are the children" as the shots ring out. Zwane said an attempted murder case was opened for investigation. Zwane said one person was arrested. Police are still searching for one of the suspects involved in the shooting. Both incidents were reported at Wentworth police station. Hime Street residents have voiced their concern about the lack of policing in the area despite the police station being a street away. Zwane said the residents were not willing to assist police in pointing out the perpetrators. He urged residents to work together with the police in the fight against crime. "We appeal to the community to come forward and give statements regarding these two incidents. Witnesses must not be afraid as this might cause the suspects to be found not guilty at court due to insufficient evidence," he said. Zwane urged residents to make use of the Crime Stop number 08600 10111 to report criminals. Daily News