Durban - Visvin Reddy, a Chatsworth resident and ANC activist, said it was disgusting and disturbing that Chatsworth police would arrest 20 residents for being part of a demonstration outside the station. More than 1 000 residents stood outside the Chatsworth police station on Monday night, demanding for justice to be served on the hijackers who were caught in Shallcross earlier in the day. Sadia Sukhraj, 9, was shot during the hijacking and died after being transported to a hospital. Reddy said several violent protests were held by residents of the Bottlebrush informal settlement on Link Road in Shallcross on numerous occasions, but nobody was arrested. "Why is it that the attitude of SAPS Chatsworth was different when the community demonstrated on Link Road and burnt tyres, looted shops and nearby homes? I have seen footage of the behaviour of senior SAPS officers. I demand that these community members be released immediately or there will be another demonstration outside the station. This bigotry and double standards must stop," Reddy said. KZN police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala condemned the "violent" protest that took place outside the police station. "They were burning tyres, blockaded the road with burning tyres and hurled objects at the station premises. The police vehicles were also damaged during the violent protest. A total of 20 suspects were arrested last night for public violence," Gwala said. The arrested protesters are expected to appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate's court soon. Dianne Kohler Barnard, the DA spokesperson on police, said she understood the anger and horror that flows through a community when a child is murdered.  "At times such as these, people leave their homes and feel a desperate need to gather in the streets to mourn with the family.  Sadly, after hours of mourning, there followed the almost inevitable anger. The community was looking for someone to blame for their pain. "Tyres were allegedly burned, and in the evening, the DA councillor who was there said, the community began to throw stones at the police station. The fury they felt at the death of one of their children was aimed at the police because there was no sign of the perpetrators." She said the station management then called in the Public Order Police, who eventually retaliated with rubber bullets. "Many on social media today are claiming they were not in any way violent. Arrests were, however, made,"she said. Kohler Barnard said every leniency should be shown to the mourning community, but added that lawlessness could not be allowed. "Stoning police will not bring back the life of a child, or make the SAPS more effective, or the criminals less brutal," she added. Kohler Barnard said she would ask for a full investigation of the matter. "If it is proven that the community became violent, one will understand why the station management called in the POP unit. On the other hand, if the POP unit fired rubber bullets into a mourning and peaceful crowd, heads must roll.” Daily News