Dr Paul Lutchman, lead pastor at the Christian Revival Centre, said criminals were sometimes given better treatment than citizens. He called for changes in the justice system that would be harsher on criminals. “People who hijack, break into people’s homes, rape and murder are here walking amongst us in the streets,” said Lutchman. He said extreme measures must be taken in order to reinstate criminals’ fear of the police. “Police must be deployed to the hot spots where crimes are known to take place, not just in Chatsworth but all places affected by crime. We as the community are also willing to assist the police in fighting crime,” he said. Blame Lutchman also called on the community not to blame the  police because they were doing what they could with limited resources. “Our child (Sadia) is gone. Now we must unite and find these criminals,” he said. Pastor and chairperson of Savannah Park Community Police Forum Jace Ramadhanie, of the Word of Hope Ministries, said Sadia’s death must be a lesson for everyone. “I would like to think that the police will open their doors to help the community because the problem will be solved only when we work together,” he said. He said if the community wanted to report anything to the Savannah Park CPF, their doors were always open. Religious leaders in Chatsworth have called for calm as anger sparked by Sadia’s death threatens to boil over. Vee Gani, executive member of the Chatsworth and district Muslim forum, said it was important to understand that crime was not specific to the township, but it affected people from all areas and of all creeds and races. “Tensions are rising. Temperatures are rising. People are going to react People are emotional and it is understandable. I think people need to be calm and let the law take its course.” Gani said there should be an engagement with all stakeholders involved. Perceived police corruption and inefficiency led to people being angry, which “was understandable”, but there were police officers who were hard-working and took their jobs seriously, Gani said. “Going forward, we need to engage robustly but constructively. People acting emotionally is not going to help,” he said. If things needed to change, then the community needed to be involved, Gani said. Pundit Rishi Maharajh, of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple, said he also understood the community’s anger, but condemned violence. He said they expected greater commitment from the various arms of security in the state. Maharajh also cautioned people not to commit acts of violence when they were protesting against violence. “As individuals, we should set the highest examples of moral values,” he said. Cyril Pillay, a former parliamentarian and community activist, said he strongly believed in social cohesion. “I call for common sense to prevail,” he said. Pillay said the SAPS was an integral part of the community and lawlessness should not be used to fight against them. Daily News