Durban - The SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) in KZN was expected to occupy the Department of Education offices across the province and hold protests outside the KZN Legislature where the provincial education MEC was due to deliver his budget speech on Thursday. In an eight-minute WhatsApp video statement sent out on Wednesday night, Sadtu officials called on their members to hold mass pickets at key locations in the province in a bid to draw attention to pertinent issues they want to be addressed in KZN MEC for Education, Mthandeni Dlungwane's budget speech. He is due to deliver his budget at the KZN Legislature on Thursday afternoon. In the video Nomarashiya Caluza, KZN Provincial Secretary for Sadtu highlighted a number of issues including salary woes for Grade R teachers, repairing storm-damaged schools in the province, and the reallocation of R109 million which was previously set aside for a sanitary towels programme in schools. "Sadtu will be picketing at district offices as well as the head office of the Department of Education in KZN for a number of reasons... We believe the employer, at Bargaining Council level, has been delaying salary negotiations. These negotiations started in September 2017 and the expectation was that by April 2018, workers in education and all public servants will be getting their salary increase, which has not happened because of the hide and seek games that the employer has been playing," she said. "As Sadtu we are sick and tired of these games and we are now putting pressure to say that workers are ready to take to the streets. We are ready to occupy the streets in all towns in KZN and all over the country," Caluza said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "But also on top of the salary negotiations, which is a national issue, we also have issues in KZN where Grade R teachers have not received their salaries... The issue that we want the MEC to prioritise in his budge is the issue of Grade 1 practitioners. The Legislature and KZN cabinet must understand that Grade R practitioners are still owed their salary increment as of April 2017. It's been a year now, it's even worse that some of them did not get their salary on 30 April 2018. The legislature needs to understand and internalise issues we are facing in education, issues that are impacting education..." said Caluza. She said they also want the MEC to prioritise the issue of payment of norms and standards for schools - a fee used for classrooms, electricity, water, sanitation, libraries, laboratories for science, technology and life sciences, sport and recreation facilities - and the identification of pupils. "We want the MEC to be clear when he presents his budget, we don't want the issue which happened last year where learners without identification documents were not catered for when the Department was paying norms and standards. The constitution of the country and the Freedom Charter outlines education as a basic right, so we want the MEC to be very clear about how it will address the issue this year." Other issues she raised included clarity on the Department's budget for rural schools and staff issues affecting education in the province. "We also want the budget speech to be clear about rural incentives. These should be paid on a monthly basis. Paying rural incentives after a year is defeating the main purpose of having this incentive, it must stop now... Coupled with that we want to hear the MEC prioritising staffing in schools. There are still schools that do not have teachers. We want to hear from the MEC what is the plan of filling the more than 4000 vacant posts that are still vacant at education district offices, at the education head office, and also we know of schools where there is silent retrenchments where the department is abolishing certain posts..." On infrastructure matters, she said they want to the MEC to address the issue of toilets and classrooms. "There are many schools that are still left damaged after last year's storms. This thing of using mobile toilets and classrooms must come to an end." "We also want the issue of sanitary towels addressed in the budget. This R109 million that is being used for sanitary towels is uncalled for. That money must be taken and channelled to more important needs like nutrition and transport for pupils," said Caluza. "We will be joining the MEC when he presents the budget speech at the Legislature in KZN. We are calling on our members in Durban South, Inkosi Albert Luthuli and Harry Gwala Regions to occupy that place. We will be starting at Burger Street (in Pietermaritzburg) at the Department of Education and then move to the Legislature." Daily News