Tshikani Lewis Khoza's studies have also earned him wide acknowledgement for his research, which looked into the experiences of military emergency and rescue services providers. He has also achieved the title of being DUT’s first cum laude Master’s graduate in the Emergency Medical Profession, and he is the country’s first black Master’s graduate in this field. “I used to see my grandmother who was sickly with diabetes battle. When she collapsed, we’d have to carry her to the local hospital, and that made me feel helpless. So I wanted to work in emergency and rescue services (EMRS) so that I could contribute in some way,” said Khoza, who is currently working as an advanced paramedic. “I started my studies in 2008. Through the military, I studied towards a National Certificate in Emergency Care Technology over two years. But this had limited scope, and I felt the need to study further in order to be able to offer more to patients. So I enrolled at DUT for a Bachelor of Health degree, and I did that from 2011 to 2014,” he explained. His research, he said, was prompted by a “burning question” in his heart, based on his own experience in the field: “I wanted to know more about the lived experiences of military EMRS providers. I was one of them, and I felt that no one really knows what happens with these professionals, and no one really researches this. In order to make a change, I had to start doing research into this.” It is believed that Khoza’s research will change the way military EMRS staff provide care. “And I hope it will contribute to saving more lives in military EMRS care. I hope my research highlights the lack of resources for these professionals, medical resources and equipment that they need in order to do their jobs.” “We tend to dwell a lot on the heroes we see on TV, for example, but the real heroes are those who lay their lives on the line for our democracy, for security and for things we take for granted, like how we are able to live peaceful lives. They do their jobs in unsuitable and hostile environments. Some of them come home in coffins and we don’t even hear their ­stories,” said Khoza. Dr Kevin Govender - research co-ordinator at the EMC department at DUT - said there had been minimal research done in the field that Khoza explored: “There has been research, but not at the scientific level that results in publication, like his is. It’s a very sensitive area that, historically would have been passed on to formal structures within the military. But now, with research being made more public, Tshikani’s work will get more public attention.” Daily News