Captain Vinny Pillay, of Umhlali police station, has now made the finals of the campaign. “I joined the force because I always wanted to help the community. I think I was inspired by my older brother and watching how he worked as a police officer,” said Pillay. Integrity Idols is a global campaign that runs in Nepal, Liberia, Pakistan, Mali, Nigeria and South Africa. It is run by citizens in search of honest government officials. It aims to generate debate around the idea of integrity and honesty with the hope of inspiring a new generation of effective public servants. Teams of volunteers travel across their countries gathering nominations from citizens, hosting public forums and generating a national discourse on the need for public officials with integrity. The nominees are narrowed down to a final five in each country with the help of independent panels of experts. Pillay has been acknowledged for going beyond the call of duty in assisting the aged, disabled and others. Khrisie Valayadan, an attorney from the area, nominated Pillay. She said he was the first person to come to mind when she heard about the campaign. “As an attorney, I’m always at the courts or at the police station, and you witness the lack of service from some government officials. “And you always hear of incidents of bribery and corruption involving police. So credit must be given where it’s due. Captain Pillay has always been an upright person and someone of integrity. It is what he is known for,” Valayadan said. “If you speak to anyone in the community, they know him because he is always spearheading efforts to help them. He’s the kind of person that police officers should aspire to be as officers of the law.” Pillay said he was humbled by the nomination and making it to the final five. “I’ve been a police officer for almost 25 years now. I know there are negative perceptions about police out there because there are officers who are doing this just to earn a salary. But there are many of us, like myself and my team, who know this is a calling and who want to serve our community. “I always say when you are dealing with someone as a police officer, always think of them as family and ask yourself how you would like them to be treated in that situation.” Pillay is leading the final votes tally. Competing in the SA Integrity Idols are Elizabeth Mkhondo, a nurse from Mamelodi; Johannesburg firefighters Deon Easu and Jocelin Flank, a team entry; Mirja Delport, a doctor from Oudtshoorn; and Natascha Meisler, a Free State teacher. Voting ends on May 18. Votes can be cast at http://www.integrityidol.org/countries/south-africa/ Daily News