The free three-day event will provide youth with access to employment opportunities, career information, scholarship and bursary information and more. School pupils can also expect live science demonstrations in line with the current curriculum. The expo runs from May 24 to 26. A joint initiative of eThekwini Municipality, the Durban ICC, eThekwini Maritime Cluster and Independent Media, it is intended to be a one-stop-shop of resources catering for the youth, students, aspiring young entrepreneurs and Grade 11 and 12 pupils. Greg le Roux, group executive of events and membership at Independent Media, said the Youth Employability Indaba was a perfect fit with company’s ethos. Existing projects like Independent Media’s Talent 360 careers supplement and annual matric supplements - among others - were testament to its ideals of honing in on youth empowerment and development through knowledge dissemination. “Independent Media will be hosting three conferences over the three days of the event, within the Youth Employability Expo. The Conversational Corner will see sports and entertainment stars, local heroes and influencers engaging in an informal panel discussion with attendees. They will discuss topics related to paths to success, unlocking opportunities, sporting career opportunities - among others. “Through the Careers Conference and Career Opportunities programme, the youth will have direct access to key state institutions like the University of KZN, Durban University of Technology, University of Zululand and others. Experts will be giving formal career guidance in nine sectors of industry. And through the self-improvement workshops, we will be empowering youth with various life skills to help them stick out in the crowd in so far as employability goes - tackling aspects like CV-building, interview skills, exam preparation and more.” Asimbonge Mkhize, business development officer at Durban ICC, said: “eThekwini Municipality will bus in youth from all wards across the region and the event is also open to the public. Henre Bens on, of the Centre for the Advancement of Science and Mathematics Education, (CASME), said they will be hosting a pop-up science lab at the event. “We will be doing four sessions a day, catering for 60 pupils at a time. We want to bring science alive for pupils and we will be doing a chemistry and a physics practical for Grade 12 pupils, which is in line with their current curriculum.” Sibusiso Zondo, who is with the eThekwini Maritime Cluster, said the non-profit organisation had a packed training and skills development programme on offer. “We aim to assist teachers and pupils with information on maritime studies. We want to help teachers unpack learning material and we will let pupils know about the opportunities in maritime studies from studying in the field to industry-related opportunities. We have arranged speakers from educational institutions and in industry who will unpack different topics in terms of the training they offer and how it is related to industry.”  For more information about the event and how to attend visit www.kzncareerexpo.co.za. You can also check the expo out on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram: KZNCareerExpo; or call Mabuyi Mosai at 031 266 9937.  Daily News