Durban - Protesting shack dwellers in Cato Crest have threatened to make the entire area of Cato Manor ungovernable unless the eThekwini Municipality accedes to their demands of better living conditions. The statement was made after Monday's protest and barricading of Vusi Mzimela (Bellair) Road and King Cethshwayo (Jan Smuts) Highway. The roads were blocked off with rubble, tree logs and tree branches, broken glass bottles and refuse. The crowd dispersed peacefully after meeting with a city official. Ndabo Mzimela, Abahlali baseMjondolo Cato Crest spokesperson, said the community had been sidelined by the city which has failed to provide "basic services, including those which are urgently required for basic human dignity and safety". "The community has been living in the area without electricity, proper water and toilets. People are raising children in these dangerous conditions. Earlier this year the current Mayor Zandile Gumede promised to speed up the process of providing electricity and sanitation in the settlement," Mzimela said. "These were empty promises. Politicians continue to lie to people to get their votes.  They send in the police to attack people when they demand what was promised to them," he said. Cato Crest residents claimed that the municipality continues to try and weaken the community by dividing them. "They say that people from Eastern Cape must go back to ‘their province’ if they want services. This is outrageous and we will never accept it. South Africa belongs to all who live in it. If you live in an occupation you are from that occupation," Mzimela said. Explaining the reasoning behind barricading the road, Mzimela explained that it was not their intention to cause disruption and chaos. They also want to live a dignified and safe life. "For as long as our dignity continues to be violated by the municipality we will continue to fight. We are not frightened by police who threaten us with guns. When it comes to our dignity we don't fear anything," Mzimela added. Princess Nkabane,eThekwini Municipality spokesperson,  said the city will respond as soon as they have collated the information. In a separate incident, a group of 150 people blocked Clare Road with burning tyres and dirt on Monday night said police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele. "Police attended and found community members were dissatisfied with service delivery relating to electricity outages in the area.  A case of public violence was opened at Sydenham police station for investigation," she said. Daily News