The DA pamphlets had been distributed at the party gatherings in KwaZulu-Natal apparently, as part of the campaign for next year’s general elections. The EFF said the DA was playing with people’s emotions in order to win their votes. EFF deputy secretary Hlengiwe Hlophe-Mkhaliphi accused the DA of peddling election propaganda. She said her party, if it wins the elections, would not take over people’s houses. The EFF is supported by the ANC in its proposal to amend Section 25 of the constitution. Hlophe-Mkhaliphi said the property clause protects white people, as they dominate land ownership. “We are not talking about expropriating houses and flats,” she said. She said the EFF wants the land on which private houses are built to be state-owned, which is going to reduce the bonds that people owe to banks. “Currently the property is quite expensive, because you are also paying for the land to the bank. If our proposal is adopted you are only going to pay for the top structure, and not the land,” she said. The DA’s campaign is in response to the ANC’s Nasrec conference resolution to amend the constitution to expropriate land, without compensation. The main opposition party also said the EFF wanted the constitution amended so that “even if you own a house or a flat, the government will own it and you will have to rent it”. The party has distributed pamphlets around KwaZulu-Natal warning homeowners against the EFF and ANC proposal. “The EFF wants to deny ownership rights by ensuring that even if you own a house or a flat, that the government will own it and you will have to rent it. “This is not land reform. “And (we) must stop the ANC and EFF from opening the floodgates of expropriation,” reads the DA pamphlet. Political analyst Bheki Mngomezulu said the ANC and EFF did not propose that houses should be taken away from their owners. “The president (Cyril Ramaphosa) has been saying expropriation would not be done in the manner that would be disruptive to the country. “If you were to take homeowners’ property, that would be disruptive which is what the government is trying to avoid.” The ANC could not be reached for comment. Parliament is criss-crossing the country conducting public hearings on land expropriation, and the hearings will be held in Durban next month. DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango said the campaign started when the ANC conference adopted the resolution on land expropriation. The DA had asked homeowners to sign a petition to protect their constitutional right to own property. Mncwango said it was impractical for a person to own a home, without owning the land. “If you own a property, you don’t own only a house because the property value is valued according to the size of your plot, which is the land. “How do you go to the bank to ask for a loan, if you don’t own the plot where you house is built?” Mncwango asked. COPE is the only predominantly black party in Parliament opposing the expropriation of land, with its leader Mosiuoa Lekota claiming that white people did not steal the land from black people, and that whites own it through negotiations that led to buying and selling agreements. The EFF led a campaign to oust the DA from controlling Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, as punishment for the latter not voting for its motion of expropriation in the House of Assembly. Daily News