Durban -It was a futile exercise for patients travelling to RK Khan Hospital from the M1 and areas such as Pinetown, KwaSanti and Klaarwater on Thursday. The taxi rank and route dispute between the KwaSanti and Klaarwater Taxi Association and their Chatsworth counterparts had left many passengers struggling to get to the hospital. Yesterday morning, opposite the hospital, a taxi driver was shot in the leg allegedly by a guard contracted by the Chatsworth Taxi Association. Another man was badly assaulted. Klaarwater resident Thembeni Mbhele said she had to walk from the freeway to the hospital, resting after every few metres. Mbhele said that was where the taxis dropped them off since the fight started. “This started a few months ago, but it seems like years. “The Chatsworth Association expelled the other association from the rank which is just a stone’s throw from the hospital,” Mbhele said. “Even then, the local operators did not use the rank after it was evacuated by the other operators. It’s surprising that they are fighting when these operators come back to the rank which has not been in use since the evacuation,” Mbhele said. She said hospital visits were also costly since the evacuation of the rank. She said she used to pay R13 from Klaarwater to the hospital. “Now we pay R15 from home to Pinetown where we take a connecting taxi to the hospital for another R15. A return fare is R60 currently, while it was R26 previously and I have to visit the hospital for check-ups twice every month and this has become expensive since this dispute started,” she said. The operators attempted to reclaim “their” rank from Tuesday until yesterday. Sbusiso Mfeka, an additional committee member of the KwaSanti and Klaarwater Association, said they had been blocked by the police since Tuesday. “All we wanted to do was to come back to our rank because dropping off our passengers on the freeway was dangerous to both the passengers and other motorists. “This morning (yesterday) the police took things extremely seriously when they impounded our vehicles. This rank is not used. The Chatsworth operators are using the front of the hospital as their rank so I don’t see why there should be this fight,” he said. He added they had been operating from the rank for about 20 years. Police said about 60 minibus taxis blockaded the road. The Public Order Policing Unit used rubber bullets to disperse the unruly crowd, and provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said two suspects aged 23 and 43 were arrested in connection with the shooting and assault. They were charged with attempted murder. “Police further arrested 40 suspects for public violence, and 50 minibus taxis were impounded. The area has been stabilised with a police unit monitoring the area.” Daily News