The new iron regulation was implemented in KwaZulu-Natal in the first week of last month, with plans to roll it out across the country. According to the SA National Blood Service (SANBS), blood stocks are sitting at 2.7days’ supply in the country, and 1.9 days in KZN. The SANBS could not confirm if the new iron regulations were resulting in less donations, but said it needed additional donors. Durban resident Janine Magree raised concern after a recent visit to the Westville Blood Clinic where she learnt about the directive which required the iron level of blood donors to be at a new increased level before they could donate. “I was speaking to the sisters at the clinic. They had to turn away a whole group of people. This is frustrating.” Doctors Solomuzi Ngcobo and Jackie Thomson of the SANBS said the new iron level requirements aimed to get blood from donors “in a safe way and not compromise their health”. A study on the iron levels of more than 4 000 randomly selected donors in South Africa produced results which led to changes in SANBS practices. Ngcobo confirmed that under the new regulations, donors would be deferred if their haemoglobin reading was not at the required level. “If a female has a haemoglobin level of less than 12.5g/dl (grams per decilitre) and a male of less than 13.5g/dl, they will not be able to donate as they are at risk of developing anaemia. We will defer them from donating blood for six months, when we will check their haemoglobin level again. “It takes the body an average of 3 to 6 months to replenish its iron stores, therefore the six-month deferral time.” Haemoglobin transports oxygen in red blood cells from the lungs to other cells in the body. It also contains iron, an essential mineral. A normal haemoglobin level is 12 to 16g/dl in females, and 14 to 18g/dl in males. “Even though the haemoglobin may be normal, the iron level may be slightly low; therefore we need to be very careful with the haemoglobin cut-off in order not to cause an iron deficiency which may lead to anaemia,” said Ngcobo. Thomson could not confirm if any elective surgeries have had to be halted recently because of blood shortages. “The SANBS works very closely with our doctors and we inform them when blood stocks are low. The decision to perform surgery is made by the doctor’s team and not the blood service,” she said. Thomson urged regular and new donors to come forward. “The new method will identify those at risk of iron deficiency. The new method will improve the way in which we look after the health of donors. We will, however, need more donors; therefore the new blood campaign.” Meanwhile, Durban resident Janet Legemaate and her son, Matthew, have become local advocates for donations. Matthew almost died in October last year when his heart and double lung transplant was put at risk because there was no blood available. Supplies had to be flown in from Johannesburg. The family have established Hero777 (7 people, tell 7 friends, 7 times) to raise awareness of organ and tissue donation. Seven people’s organs can save the lives of 50 people. Daily News