Long-standing residents spoke to the Daily News yesterday on condition of anonymity for fear of intimidation from the shack dwellers. A confrontation ensued on Monday night when homeowners confronted the informal residents when yet another shack was allegedly being built overnight. According to a voice recording taken by one of the homeowners, a man was heard threatening to burn a house down if anyone interfered with the house he was building. The homeowners are now living in fear. “My house was broken into last year and even petrol-bombed. I can’t let my child out to play because I don’t know what could happen. I fear for my safety especially with the threats from last night (Monday),” said one of the residents who has lived there for 26 years. He said the issue was not that there were shacks in the area because he was aware there was an agreement that the shacks would be built. His concern was the number of shacks allowed to be built. “Where will it stop? Where is the boundary?” he asked. Thapelo Mohapi, spokesperson for the shack dwellers’ movement Abahlali baseMjondolo (AbM), said there were 229 shacks that the Department of Human Settlements and the eThekwini Municipality had approved. He said they would investigate the alleged building of a new shack overnight. “What I don’t want is for the settlers to look like they are being unruly in this matter,” Mohapi said. Vinesh Harripersad, of the Bonela steering committee, said they were initially under the impression that 30 shacks would be built, but there were almost 300. “The department and provincial officials have said they are looking into the issue, but, to date, nothing has been sorted out,” said Harripersad. Mondli Mthembu, eThekwini’s chairperson of the human settlements and infrastructure committee, said: “We as the municipality try to keep track of the informal houses being built in Bonela, but since Abahlali baseMjondolo won a case which granted a few people permission to build their homes on that land it has become difficult.” He added that informal settlers were abusing the high court’s decision by building more homes. Mthembu was referring to an interim interdict obtained by AbM in 2017 preventing the municipality from demolishing shacks. The court order also allowed for shacks which were destroyed to be rebuilt. “There is only so much we can do. The police cannot be deployed every day and night waiting for people to build houses so we can demolish them,” Mthembu said. He called on the Human Settlements Department to play its part. The department did not respond to questions by the time of publication. SAPS Colonel Thulani Zwane appealed to residents to report incidents of intimidation to the police. Daily News