Durban - The eThekwini Youth Employability Indaba and KZN Career Expo opened at the Durban Exhibition Centre on Thursday.The expo - a joint initiative of the eThekwini Municipality, the Durban ICC, eThekwini Maritime Cluster and Independent Media - runs until Saturday. The free, three-day event presents a one-stop-shop of resources to empower the youth - tertiary institution students, aspiring young entrepreneurs and Grade 11 and 12 pupils. It will also provide information about employment opportunities, careers, scholarships, bursaries and more. There will be science demonstrations in line with the curriculum needs of Grade 11 and 12 pupils. Among the exhibitors is a team from Gradesmatch, a free, web-based tool which enables pupils to make well-informed decisions about a host of things. The team will also entertain visitors with their careers twister game. Unathi September, a Gradesmatch facilitator, said: “The app is personalised to the pupil - their school performance, where they live. It offers information about career options in South Africa and higher learning institutions approved by the Department of Education and Training. It also has information about bursaries, sponsorship opportunities and mentors,” he said. Asimbonge Mkhize, business development officer at the ICC, said they were expecting 15 000 visitors. “We have 120 stalls, excluding specialist pavilions. “We have a creative hub which will be promoting ­literature, dance, film and the like. “Another pavilion showcases agriculture programmes that eThekwini has on offer and a Safer Cities pavilion dealing with social issues.” Look out for: THE CONVERSATIONAL CORNER (Hall 2 East): Informal discussions with local heroes in sports, entertainment and business. Panellists include members of the Sharks and Dolphins rugby and cricket teams respectively. Personalities like Darryn Pollock, Keshav Maharaj, Delron Buckley, Scelo Gowane, Rani Sitaram - and others - will be there. CAREERS CONFERENCE AND CAREER OPPORTUNITIES (Hall 2 West): Formal panel discussions and presentations by KZN’s leading universities, expanding on nine key sectors. Topics include bursary information, bridging the gap between graduates and the marketplace, technology and impact on career opportunities. SELF-IMPROVEMENT WORKSHOPS (Hall 2 East): Learn more about building your CV, interview skills, exam preparation and stress management to empower and equip you for better career opportunities. Topics for the Youth Employability Indaba include “The 4th industrial revolution and what it means for the youth of today”; “How will artificial intelligence affect youth”; “How to bridge the gap between what business wants and what the curriculum produces”; and “Government innovative recruitment strategies: What plans are in place to enhance access employment opportunities for youth?”. For the full programme visit www.kzncareerexpo.co.za Daily News