The events were held in Makhosini, KwaMakhutha and Matshensikazi between December 12 and 23 last year. According to the committee, the events were approved on December 5, a day after a request was made by a department official. The committee raised concerns that Sassa’s former acting chief executive officer (CEO), Pearl Bhengu, speedily approved the request for these events and it was “apparent” that prices were inflated for services. Questions were also raised during the committee sitting in Parliament on Tuesday about social relief for victims of floods in eThekwini last October and November - where invoices for procured goods were apparently inflated, as well as a cleaning service contract awarded on an ad hoc basis for office accommodation. The DA claimed that it heard on good authority that the scheme for inflated prices was “designed with a particular campaign running to a particular event in December”. This emerged when Sassa was held accountable by Scopa for R1.4billion incurred in irregular expenditure. The flouting of the tender processes took place in the era of former minister Bathabile Dlamini and KZN regional executive Bhengu, who later became the acting CEO. Yesterday, information presented to Scopa showed that an official had made a request to Bhengu for the hosting of five events, but only three took place. The costs the events ranged from R3.7m to R3.9m. The DA’s Tim Brauteseth asked current acting chief executive Abraham Mahlangu if the expenditure sounded regular. Mahlangu said: “I would have to investigate.” An official from the KZN office identified as Jabavu confirmed that the approval was given a day after a request was made. When asked if approval by Bhengu was regular, Jabavu said he could not comment. This prompted committee chairperson Themba Godi to ask him why he had attended the meeting if he could not answer the question. “You were quick to give an explanation on what transpired, but no judgment on the process that led to authorisation of the events. Was this regular?” Godi asked. Jabavu said: “It was not.” Mahlangu said since Bhengu was not present, she should come to answer for herself. Mahlangu also said that Bhengu had asked for leave because she was not feeling well. Brauteseth said Dlamini and Bhengu could not escape accountability for their complicity in turning Sassa into their personal piggy bank, while diverting money to vanity projects that did not improve the material welfare of grant recipients. “Dlamini and Bhengu should be summoned to urgently appear before Scopa,” he said. Scopa also heard that Sassa flouted SCM processes when KZN was hit by floods last year. It was alleged that invoices were inflated, even tripled, and the distribution of the procured goods did not follow the agency’s policies. Godi said irregular expenditure should be recovered. Attempts to get comment from Bhengu were unsuccessful. Vusi Mahaye, Sassa provincial spokesperson, said the provincial office submitted itself to Parliament and Scopa. He said Bhengu was on official leave and that it would be wrong to contact her on the matter at this stage. Jerome Bele, a Black Sash field worker in KZN, said Bhengu’s actions in approving the events were questionable given her seniority at the time. He said the law should take its course. Daily News