Ngidi said she was proud and happy about her son’s achievement even though her family was still grieving from the death of her husband, Jerome. He died in April while Lungi was at the IPL and Lungi had to return home to bury his father. At the time, Lungi had not made it into any of the starting line-ups for CSK. When he rejoined the squad last month, he was given a start after Deepak Chahar suffered a hamstring injury. In the final on Sunday night, he was impressive in the powerplay and back-end overs. In four overs, he claimed 
one wicket for 26 runs and bowled the only maiden by the CSK 
attack. He also won the Stylish Player of the Match award. “I’m very happy and I thank God for the talent he has,” said Ngidi. “Especially now that his father is gone, I praise the Lord for his talent. I know it’s hard, his dad used to watch him play and go everywhere to support him but I told him to look forward and not to let this weigh him down,” she said. She was worried about her youngest son because the 22-year-old is very quiet by nature and even though she and the family are there for him, it is not the same without his dad. “He carried a lot of the loss,” she said. “But his dad would have been very proud. His dad and I shared the same thoughts. We are happy with his achievements and all we could do is help him and support him.” She said the family watched all the CSK’s matches and her favourite was against Kings XI Punjab where Lungi played a match-winning innings that earned him a Man of the Match award. “I pray that he is safe and remains the same,” she said about her son. “As his mom I couldn’t have given him the talent he has, that was God and he’s working for God.” She hoped youngsters would see that the journey to success was long, but to know God was there. She felt parents should not choose their children’s careers for them, but should support them. Lungi was asked to speak at his old school, Hilton College, to inspire others and he also coaches a small club in Pretoria. He finished the IPL with 11 wickets, the third-highest wicket taker by a CSK bowler, in fewer matches than the top two wicket takers (Shardul Thakur and Dwayne Bravo). CSK won the IPL after a two-year ban. CSK had chosen the right-arm fast bowler for 50 lakh Indian rupees during the auction, which equates to R925 000. Daily News