Durban - Parents of children attending Austerville Primary School in Wentworth will be called to an emergency meeting this week in a bid for the school and community to gain control over what has been labelled a “crisis”. During a meeting on Tuesday night - attended by parents, concerned members of the community, the Wentworth ward councillor, teachers and officials with the department of education - shocking details emerged of the school’s desperate situation. These include that the school had no audited financial records since 2016, a utility bill in arrears of more than R300 000, suppliers (of security services and stationary) who have not been paid. In addition School Governing Body (SGB) employed teachers and support staff have not been paid, leading to the health hazardous state of toilets there and five classes that are unattended with no teachers. Central to the problems are a break in communication between the school’s former SGB and the new recently elected SGB. The new body has been unable to take control as the former body had failed to hand over financial records and documentation. A point of frustration at the meeting was the non-attendance of the SGB chairman and other members. The acting principal and a department manager said numerous attempts to call and message the SGB chairman, went unanswered. Wentworth Councillor, Aubrey Snyman, said: “As the chairman of the SGB he needs to be here. He has to account for what is in the school’s kitty. We need to know how much is owing to staff and come up with a plan of how to settle this.” Another parent asked how was the situation “allowed” to get out of control: “I want to know how did the school run before he came to sit as SGB chairman and how did the school lose its grip to one individual? In the history of our democracy and in my time having also served on other SGB's, I have never heard of one person holding a school and a department, at circuit level, to ransom.” The acting principal said up until the former principal’s resignation (around 2015), the schools cheque book, minute book and other official documentation stayed at the school - as is legally required. She recalled an incident a few years ago where she requested the cheque book from an SGB member at the time: “That was when I found out that it was with the SGB and alarm bells went off. I immediately let our SEM (senior management at the department of education) know. I informed him that the minute book and cheque book were with the SGB chairman. He said he was fully aware... As of January 2016 those books have been there,” she said, addressing the meeting. A department manager present at the meeting said he was brought in late last year to help the school. “To my understanding the problems at the school have been going on from around two or three years prior. I’ve convened this meeting so that we can have something constructive. The way forward must be an owned effort. This is an emergency meeting of the community. This meeting should be led by the governing body and there is only one parent member here. I can not respond to everything, but I will try... But the community and parents must take ownership and say ‘our non-involvement has led to this stalemate’. The custodians of the SGB are the parents.” A parent member of the SGB said that for the past two elections, parents hadn’t pitched for SGB elections. In a WhatsApp message shared on the Save Austerville Primary group on Wednesday, parent and community representative Llewellyn Jullies, said a letter was going out to parents calling for an emergency meeting: “Parents need to put in motion a vote of no confidence in the SGB. The SGB has failed the school in terms of the SA Schools Act when it speaks of governance. They have denied our children the right to quality education…” He added: "All state owned property, all documentation that belongs to the school and the SGB, including the cheque book, should be held in a strong room at the school. What is happening is illegal. What is happening to our children in terms of their human rights, is illegal. It is illegal to deny us as parents the right to get involved in our children’s education. We need things to come right in the school and it must happen now.” He urged parents to attend the emergency meeting: “As parents we need to take ownership of the school and of the governing body… We need to vote in a leadership in our school that is for our children, not against them.” The meeting will take place on Saturday at 2pm at Austerville Primary School. Daily News