This followed yesterday’s media briefing by Dube-Ncube where she reiterated the government’s commitment to ensuring a safe environment for the auditor-general’s (AG) work in light of the alleged threats made against auditors by unknown individuals at the municipality recently. She said municipalities would not tolerate threats. “We would like to assure all South Africans that no municipality in this province will tolerate any form of interference or threats of violence against any official from any institutions tasked with an oversight mandate,” Dube-Ncube said. She said as the reports surfaced, her department had dispatched a high-level team to the municipality. “We are very concerned about the incorrect impression created by this situation. KZN municipalities are not banana republics and they act within the law. Many investigations have been conducted in municipalities without fear or favour,” she said. Dube-Ncube said a report was being prepared to brief Cogta Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize about what had been done since the threats surfaced. The Active Citizens’ Movement, a non-political organisation, tore into Dube-Ncube’s claims and accused her of lacking political clout to deal with the “rot” in eThekwini. Ben Madokwe, the organisation’s provincial chairperson, said the threats to the AG’s team were informed by the rampant mismanagement of funds at the municipality. “Cogta should have intervened a long time ago in the affairs of this municipality. We have so many questionable deals approved by the municipality with no intervention by the department. The city has been milked of hundreds of millions through shoddy deals,” Madokwe said. Deals He said deals including the Tansnat bus operator, orange plastic bags, non-payment of Durban Solid Waste (DSW) contractors and the contract for mobile toilets in impoverished communities that never materialised, had cost the city a “fortune”, and Cogta had not intervened. “All these deals were just a money-making scheme and we don’t believe that Cogta is serious about dealing with financial mismanagement and better service delivery,” he said. The Daily News reported yesterday that the city was increasing the bus fare by 8%. In other media reports, millions were paid to companies for the provision of orange bags and supply of toilets. There was also the recent adjustment of the R45million budget to R130m for over six months - for the payment of DSW contractors for waste removal, and was approved at the city’s executive committee meeting on Tuesday, with the DA refusing to support the move. Hlanganani Gumbi, the DA spokesperson on Cogta, said Dube-Ncube had failed to take “hard political choices” to ensure that eThekwini upheld its constitutional role. “She can act easily against smaller party councillors, but cannot do the same with Durban. Here we are talking about a municipality that used to deliver about 16000 houses annually, but has since dropped to less than 2 000 houses. “Dube-Ncube is scared to act against this municipality and it would seem there is a heavy political figure that is pulling the strings. How else can you explain the current situation with tenders? These are cases she should be taking action against,” Gumbi said. Lennox Mabaso, Dube-Ncube’s spokesperson, said the department was not privy to every transaction made by municipalities. “Which MEC led to the Manase report where eThekwini was investigated? These claims are laughable,” he said. Municipal manager Sipho Nzuza said the city was in the process of resolving issues raised, including its transport system. He said once the Go! Durban system kicked in, all transport issues would be resolved. Daily News