Police launched an investigation into the incident which took place in Madadeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal. Sisters Naseem, 11; Muneera, 9; and Nazia Gama, 6; were on their way to school at Islamic College Newcastle when they were hijacked. Their eldest sister, Farida Gama, 29, said she did not go to work in Durban when she heard the news. “It was bad,” Gama said. “My parents were not good and my mother was crying all day.” She said the kidnappers called and demanded R2 million from the family. “We did not know where we were going to get it from and we feared that they would kill them,” she said. When Gama spoke to the Daily News on Monday evening, she said they had not yet been allowed to see the girls, who were still at the police station. SAPS Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the girls were rescued in a joint operation led by the Newcastle Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit commander, Captain Nagesh Moothilal, the Newcastle K9 Unit and Madadeni detectives. “The team went to a house in Inverness Place, in Osizweni, where the three children were being kept. Four suspects aged between 20 and 26 were arrested after they were found in possession of an unlicensed pistol,” Mbhele said. She also said a vehicle was recovered at Osizweni C-section yesterday afternoon. She did not confirm whether it was the hijacked car. Mbhele said the complainant was driving his uncle’s car in Madadeni when unknown men waved at him indicating there was something wrong with the tyre. “The complainant was travelling with six children. He stopped near Qaphelani school to check the tyres when the suspects threatened him with firearms. The suspects pulled him out of the vehicle. They fled the scene with the three children in the silver BMW,” she said. Gama had posted an appeal on social media to help find her sisters. The message was widely shared by people wanting to assist. Among those eager to help was Mary Dobbie, director of Newcastle Crisis Centre, who said they were contacted in case the girls came to the centre, a place of safety for victims of crime. Daily News