The councillors said the postponement of Exco meetings made it difficult for them to play their oversight roles. The parties said this was not new to the municipality and the recent postponement was because of the absence of mayor Zandile Gumede. She was in Tokyo. Nicole Graham, DA caucus leader, said Gumede’s “behaviour” was becoming very frustrating and she was difficult to work with. “Whenever she goes abroad or out of the province, chances are that meetings are postponed and everything comes to a standstill at the expense of good governance and this prevents councillors from performing their oversight roles. “Next week there will be full council and everything that was not dealt with at the postponed Exco meeting will have to be dealt with in a short space of time before full council. “We can’t be expected that every time the mayor decides to postpone Exco, we as councillors have to deal with hundreds of pages of agenda just before council. This makes it difficult for us to play our oversight role. “We will be considering writing to Cogta for intervention into this chaos,” Graham said. Gumede and an unknown number of officials from the city’s environmental affairs unit left for Tokyo on Monday to attend a climate change conference. She left without delegating mayoral powers to her deputy, Fawzia Peer, according to an insider who asked to remain anonymous. According to the insider: “She (Gumede) doesn’t trust her, or she doesn’t like her because of ANC internal politics. Her treatment of her deputy leaves much to be desired and I’m surprised she’s still there. “The Mthembu appointment as acting mayor when Gumede was away can be seen as a sign of a broken relationship between the two, if there was one. “An intervention by Cogta is necessary. If things continue the way they are, this will come back to haunt the municipality sooner or later.” In March last year, the Daily News reported that when Gumede left for New York attending the C40, a global conference on climate change, she appointed Mondli Mthembu, chairperson of the human settlement and infrastructure development committee, as acting mayor even though Peer was available. Section 49 (2) of the Local Government Municipal Structures Act provides that the deputy mayor exercises the powers and performs the duties of the mayor if the mayor is absent or not available or if the office of the mayor is vacant. Peer Before the 2016 local government elections, Peer was reported to be an ally of former mayor James Nxumalo, the insider said, adding that Peer was snubbed because she belonged to another faction of the ANC. Peer declined to comment. The ANC camps within the region were viewed as a cause of the frustration experienced by eThekwini opposition councillors. Councillor Mdu Nkosi, an IFP Exco member, said the factions were hindering the work of the councillors, and that postponements were common in the city. “This is the month where the city budget should be passed, so these Exco postponements mean that agenda items will be cramped in one document. “How do we thoroughly interrogate each item and award before it goes to full council if we are not given time to do so? “The buck stops with Cogta because they, too, have an oversight role to play to ensure that committees sit. That’s why previously we had so many Section 36 awards,” Nkosi said. Former eThekwini mayor James Nxumalo said postponement of Exco meetings was not healthy for the effective and efficient running of a municipality. “The sitting mayor has a duty to ensure that mayoral powers are delegated to the deputy in the former’s absence. “Councillors have a right to bring the issue to Cogta’s attention as it has the potential to hinder the smooth operation of the municipality,” he said. Gumede’s spokesperson, Mthunzi Gumede, said the mayor did not take any councillors with her on the trip, and that she would return on Monday. When asked why Exco was postponed, (Mthunzi) Gumede said Exco could not meet if cluster committees did not sit. When asked why committees did not sit, he said: “No, I don’t mean that they did not sit.” He requested written questions and later responded: “The reason why the meeting didn’t sit is purely administrative; there were few items for the agenda. “Committees were given space to look into other issues because we are preparing for the council meeting and a first State of the City Address event. “It’s not true that the meeting was postponed due to the unavailability of the mayor; we have had a number of meetings in the past when the mayor was not present.” However, Nkosi rubbished the explanation, saying his committee (housing) had many outstanding items to be discussed. Cogta Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize delegated Sihle Zikalala to handle the Daily News’s query. Zikalala, ANC provincial task team co-ordinator, said they were not aware of the postponements. “The mayor’s absence cannot be a reason for the postponement of Exco sittings. It’s an anomaly and we will look into the issue,” Zikalala said yesterday evening. Daily News