The community gathering at the Chatsworth youth centre yesterday was prompted by the furore over the death of 9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj in a hijacking on Monday The meeting was chaired by Pillay, MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works, and included MPL Maggie Govender, Chatsworth Community Policing Forum (CPF) chairperson Jakes Singh and community activist and pastor Cyril Pillay. There were no SAPS representatives at the venue. Denise Ganas said her husband was shot dead last year and her daughter was injured during a hijacking. She said what made her angry was that politicians came to visit her home and were more concerned about getting pictures of themselves in the media. Praven Allopi told how he was hit twice on his head with a panga. Allopi said he opened a case in 2016, but nothing ever happened. This was despite him identifying his attacker. “We know the perpetrator’s name. He still answers his cellphone as he had the nerve to phone me on New Year’s Eve. To date, nothing has been done about it,” he said. Other residents also complained about the alleged violence that happened at the Chatsworth police station Monday night during a protest. They asked for a committee to investigate what was seen as excessive force. Pillay had earlier called for calm from the community. “We are against criminals and not the society they come from,” he said. Pillay suggested a committee be formed that would get to know the issues faced by the community and take them up with the relevant authorities. However, not all community members were keen on the idea. Dean Padayachee had earlier called for the SANDF to be deployed. He said the soldiers could help the SAPS to fight crime if they were trained properly. Earlier in the day, Mxolisi Kaunda, the MEC for Community Safety and Liaison, said the army would not be deployed to the area. He said the crime situation in Chat­sworth had not reached the level where it warranted SANDF deployment. There have been calls in the community for the army to deployed in the area. Kaunda was accompanied by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede and her deputy, Fawzia Peer. Kaunda said they looked at the three big crimes affecting Chatsworth residents: business and residential robberies and hijacking. “There is a specialised team to handle the situation, but we also acknowledge that the police cannot be everywhere. But they are able to respond when these incidents present themselves,” he said. Kaunda called for harsher sentences which would be a deterrent for criminals. He said police were working “flat out” to try to apprehend the third suspect who was involved in the botched hijacking in which Sadia was killed. Kaunda also said he had noted the community’s concerns about crime raised during the meeting. Out of the three suspects who were believed to have been involved in the incident, one died, one was arrested and another escaped. Sibonelo Mkhize, who was arrested, appeared at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday where he abandoned his bail application. He is facing murder, theft and kidnapping charges. Daily News