Durban -  Hospital staff at Osindisweni Hospital, have embarked on a strike on Wednesday over poor working conditions, no medication and being understaffed among other complaints. The hospital is managed by the KwaZulu Natal Department of Health. It is situated north of Durban between Inanda and Verulam. Melusi Mazibuko a nurse at the hospital said that it often happened that five nurses would have to work with more than 50 patients at a time. This would include bathing them, feeding them and giving them medication. "Some patients and their families don't understand why they are not getting proper service and blame us," he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  They also have to clean the wards they work in as the cleaners have either retired or passed away and are not being replaced. The protesters which include staff and members of the public handed memorandum to the hospital's management and KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health acting HOD, Dr Musa Gumede. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  Gumede said he would take the memorandum and would be discussing it with officials. He said staff shortage is an ongoing problem and had been discussing the matter earlier this week with KZN Premier Willies Mchunu and Health MEC Sibusiso Dhlomo. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  "We are aware of the problems and are trying to address them," he said. Gumede said the complaints were genuine and needed to be addressed. Daily News 