Will he sport an expected wedding-day, clean-shaven look, or go all bearded and rugged? Convention dictates that he has to shave off his beard if he wears military uniform. (The bookies have given 10/1 odds he will shave it off to go with his Blues and Royals uniform). And what will his bride-to-be Meghan Markle wear - low back, high back, no back? If she dares! Prince Harry and Markle will wed in St George’s Chapel on the grounds of Windsor Castle, where he was christened. Kloof resident Alan Job, 87, moved to South Africa with his family in 1972 and is a long-standing member of the British Cultural and Heritage Association. Acknowledged for always keeping abreast of British matters, he believes Prince Henry’s wedding attire decision will be influenced on what his brother, Prince William, did. “I cannot be absolutely certain, but thinking back to when his brother and Catherine married, he (Prince William) wore a sash with the air force logo on it because he was in the air force at the time. As for Saturday, Prince Harry is no longer in the army, so I think not,” said Job. According to www.royal.uk - official website of the British Royal Family - Prince Harry served in the army for 10years, rising to the rank of captain and undertaking two tours of Afghanistan. He continues to work in support of his fellow servicemen, promoting support for wounded men and women as they adapt to life post-injury. Prince Harry’s “I-Do” date with American actress Markle has been making news ever since their engagement was announced on November27 last year. According to reports, Markle’s father Thomas had to undergo heart surgery earlier this week. On Thursday, his non-attendance was confirmed when Kensington Palace released a statement on behalf of Markle: “Sadly, my father will not be attending our wedding. I have always cared for my father and hope he can be given the space he needs to focus on his health,” she said, without mentioning who would replace her dad in the formalities. Speculation has also been cast on Markle’s style of wedding dress. Durban’s internationally trained designer Haroun Hansrot said that because her normal look was very tailored and classic, he predicted she would go for an A-line  panelled gown, possibly in silk duchess satin, “fitted and flared”. SA Fashion Week director Lucilla Booyzen also believes she will go for a classic look and a British designer. Meanwhile, the #RoyalWedding2018 has had locals preparing to join in the celebrations. There is a royal offering of television coverage for the global spectacle. Daily News 