Krithi Thaver, the founder of Canna Culture and chairperson of the Cannabis Development Council of South Africa, said the Holistic Relief Wellness and Pain Management Centre would be officially launched at the end of the month. The services of a doctor, chiropractor and traditional healer would be available there. “They will consult patients and prescribe oils infused with cannabis to them,” he said. “By opening this centre we want to be able to show the government all the many uses for cannabis. “We don’t want cannabis legalised so that kids can get their hands on it - that is not what we are saying. There are many medical uses and benefits to using cannabis and we will show this through this centre.” Thaver said yesterday’s event was a media launch for the facility and that they would invite the government to the official launch. “We will be lobbying for the government to regulate the industry that will work with cannabis. “There are in excess of 50000 medicinal benefits of cannabis. Many of the early scientific facts that were used to make it illegal have been falsified internationally. So we want to engage the government on these matters.” Ras Negus, the secretary of the KwaZulu-Natal Rastafari Community, said they welcomed the centre as “a step in the right direction”. “Our community has been marginalised when it comes to cannabis. For years we have been saying that there are medicinal uses for the plant that even Western medicine can’t match. So we are pleased that a centre like this will open the way for government to see what we’ve been saying.” Durban-based singer Kyle Deutschmann (stage name Kyle Deutsch), who is also a chiropractor, will be linked to the centre. He commented on the matter in his capacity as a medical professional. “In my line of work there is no direct usage of cannabis-based medicines. I will be treating the whole body, looking at the musculoskeletal system and the nervous function. That said, cannabis is at the forefront of medicine internationally. “The benefits of the plant’s medicinal use has been punted by doctors overseas for a long time now, with them saying that it’s the biggest discovery second to surgical techniques.” Thaver said treatments at the centre would combine holistic practices in chiropractics, physiotherapy and others to treat diseases and illnesses - both acute and chronic. He said the centre had invited representatives from the health and legal fraternity to attend the opening. Cannabis use is a hotly-debated topic in South Africa. Last year, the government made some progress towards legalising its manufacture for medicinal uses after political parties agreed to work together on the Medical Innovations Bill, to ensure terminally ill patients, or patients with chronic pain, were able to use it to treat their symptoms. Thaver said medicinal use was just one aspect of the plant’s immense worth. It also had major benefits for agriculture and industry, which would have a domino effect on job creation and poverty alleviation. “The biggest challenge is to break the stigma around cannabis. This plant could be a major asset for the country’s economy. Nothing is wasted; it grows in drought conditions, it can be used in textiles, construction and animal feed. And there is so much more to it.” Daily News