Durban - A Religion, Gender and Sexuality in Africa conference kick-starts at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s (UKZN) Pietermaritzburg campus on Monday afternoon. UKZN School of Religion, Philosophy and Classics will host the five-day conference which will bring together more than 65 gender and sexuality scholars and activists from around the world. Keynote speakers, according to an invite from the university, will include Professor Kwok Pui Lan (Hong Kong/USA), Professor Sylvia Tamale (Uganda), Professor Cheryl Anderson (USA), Professor Madipoane Masenya (SA), Reverend Kakay Paraman (Philippines) and Professor Juliana Claassens (SA) together with delegates from more than six African countries. The conference seeks to celebrate diversity within religious contexts, and to empower change agents with knowledge and skills to engage in the building of welcoming, affirming and inclusive faith communities, where Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) people, their parents, families, and friends will be strengthened in their spiritual, psychological and sexual identity. LGBTI’s in Africa started realizing that religious fundamentalism, patriarchy, heteronormativity, stigma, shame and forced secrecy are affecting every single LGBTI individual, regardless of whether he or she is a person of faith or not. The conference also includes 20 Non-Governmental Organisations from around SA and a regional meeting of the Chapter of the Circle for Concerned African Women Theologians. UKZN presentations will be made by academic staff, students, and postdoctoral fellows who come from a range of disciplines including religion and theology, drama, law, social work, public health, and education. The conference comes a few weeks after allegations of gay and lesbian discrimination were made against a religious group at the institution’s Nelson Mandela School of Medicine. The matter is under investigation. Professor Charlene van der Walt, UKZN academic and Head of Religion and Gender said: “This conference will not only assert and showcase UKZN as a leading school in the field of gender and sexuality studies, but also the multidisciplinary approach that we take to it.” Daily News