Durban - The Upper Highway Community are reeling with shock following the murder of the manager of Crinkley Bottom in Hillcrest. Adriaan Van Wyk, who managed Crinkley Bottom a popular hangout spot for locals was killed on Sunday. Police are still trying to establish if anything was taken. It is alleged that he was approached by two men in his office. Captain Nqobile Gwala, a KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, said that Hillcrest police received a complaint of an assault in Crinkley Bottom Park, Inanda Road on Sunday. "Police proceeded to the scene and found a 38-year old man sitting on a chair with a gunshot wound to the stomach. He was certified dead at the scene. The motive for the killing is unknown," Gwala said. A case of murder was opened at Hillcrest police station for investigation. No arrest has been made at this stage. Steven King,  a spokesperson for South African Community  Crime Watch KwaZulu Natal, said the incident is being investigated by police. "The incident led to the death of an employee. We ask that the community give the family and colleagues room to come to terms with what has happened,"King said. On Facebook  Donnalyn Jenny Dauberman‎ posted on the Crinkley Bottom park and wedding venue. "May our very dear friend Adriaan Van Wyk, husband to Samantha and his little boy Connor, may you rest in peace my friend! Tragic what happened! Taken away from a senseless killing and I do hope those that did this are hunted down and killed like they did our dear friend!!! Greatest condolences and sympathy and prayers to Sam, Connor and his family". Corne Broodryk‎ who posted on Upper Highway Crime Watch wrote: "The Stokers Community is devastated to hear the news of the brutal murder of our former manager and forever friend Adrian Van Wyk. Adrian was a manager at Stokers from 2010 until 2017. Adrian was gunned down this morning at Crinkly Bottom in Waterfall where he has been the manager for the last year. An armed gang shot him and escaped with an undisclosed amount of cash, etc. Adrian was a kind and caring man who went out of his way to accommodate every customer request. Nothing was too much trouble for him. His family have lost a husband, father and son who cannot be replaced". Daily News