Durban- The Durban and Coast SPCA is pleading to the public to help feed its animals because of its low food stock.
The SPCA said previously its stockroom was overflowing with food, but now it was becoming bare. They linked their diminishing stock levels to the VAT increase in April and the latest petrol price hike. Economist Dawie Roodt agreed and said the increases had caused consumers to cut back on things of less importance to them. Tanya Fleischer, Durban and Coast SPCA marketing manager, said the stock would not last long. “The dogs have a two-to-three-day supply, the kittens have one day, and we do not have any kitten kibble or sachets of soft food for them. “The cats have about two to three weeks’ stock,” Fleischer said. She noticed the decline in food donations in January. The donations have decreased over the years, but she said this year had been the worst. Every two weeks they would collect full food bins from supermarkets, but now the bins are usually half full. The SPCA is also feeding more animals because it is receiving more strays and unwanted animals. “In the week of May 21 to May 27, we had 124 dogs/puppies (50 strays and 74 unwanted), and 77 cats/kittens (63 stray and 14 unwanted),” Fleischer said. “We are already so touched by the positive response from our donors to our appeal and are hoping that more of the community will be willing to support our animals with donations of food or money to purchase food,” she said. Brigitte Ferguson, marketing and fund-raising officer at Kloof and Highway SPCA, said they were always in need of dog and cat food because the number of animals admitted increased monthly. “There are many ways that the community can help or get involved - by making a financial donation (which is tax deductible); supporting our fund-raising initiatives; sponsoring a kennel and our cattery; donating dog, cat and other animal food, toys or treats; supporting our charity and thrift shops by donating unwanted household items, clothing or anything else which we can sell to raise much-needed funds. Thank you to our community for always supporting us,” Ferguson said. Meg Wilson, of the National Council of SPCAs, said the organisations were non-profit, relying solely on the public to keep their doors open. “The public is therefore urged to get involved, to find out where there is a need and to assist where possible,” Wilson said. Roodt said the main factor in the food donation decline was the general state of the economy. He said living standards were under pressure. “It’s not so obvious, but it’s gradually building up. The South African economy is growing slower than the population, which is making the average consumer worse off. Therefore, people are cutting back on things of less importance and it’s easier for them to cut donations,” he said. Roodt said it was no surprise that the SPCA was receiving fewer food donations. Daily News 