As the deadline struck, the association met its members who own shops in the INK area’s to give them feedback on the Tuesday night meeting with municipal officials, including the Premier Willies Mchunu. Mlungisi Mncube, the Norba secretary, delivered the solution by Mchunu to regulate the number of tuckshops running in the north region. In unison the crowd chanted: “We are tired,” as Mncube explained that foreign-owned shops would not be closing, but instead all shops had until May 24 to register their businesses or be closed. Mncube encouraged all Norba members and new business owners to register their businesses so they did not have to close. “We have been abused enough by these foreign owners,” Mncube said. The issue that Norba has against foreign-owned tuck-shops is that traders from Somalia and Ethiopia get cheaper rates when buying stock, which allowed them to sell it at lower prices. Jabu Majola, who has a tuckshop in KwaMashu, and had experienced competition from neighbouring foreign-owned tuckshops, said: “People do not even buy bread from me since the Somalis opened their stores. They sell bread for 50 cents less than me, and because of that people no longer buy from me.” Ibrahim Hassan, the chairperson for the KZN Somalian Community Committee (KZNSCC), said he welcomed the decision by Mchunu to regulate tuckshops but added that all shops should be forced to register, not just Somali-owned shops. “As we are all seen as equal in the eyes of the law, we must all go through the system of registering our businesses.” He added that the KZNSCC would also like to be a part of associations like Norba, and fall under the same umbrella. Regarding the alleged tension between foreign and local tuckshop owners, Mncube disputed it, saying Norba had in no way encouraged its members to act violently towards foreign tuckshop owners and that anyone who did would be doing so on their own. Ethiopian shop owner John Letemo, whose shop was open for business as usual on Thursday,  said he would be registering his tuckshop as instructed by Mchunu so that the regulation process could run smoothly. Daily News