Durban -Police have warned residents about the consequences of taking the law into their own hands. One such consequence is the arrest of at least 12 alleged vigilantes being arrested recently for murder and attempted murder.Vigilantism is defined as when a person or group of people take the law into their own hands, in an attempt to serve justice. “Those actions lead to injuries or even death to a person that is being suspected of committing an offence,” said Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, a police spokesperson. She said charges for vigilantism differed because of the nature of injuries sustained by the victim. Cases of grievous bodily harm and attempted murder could be opened by the victim. Some could even lose their lives and a case of murder would be opened. She also said the public was warned recently that acts of vigilantism would not be tolerated in the province. “The community is urged to refrain from taking the law into their own hands and let police continue doing their job by investigating and arresting the suspects involved in criminal activities. “The community must ensure that they work with police by providing information to solve pending cases or witnesses to the crime. “Many people have been killed or injured after being accused of a crime they have not committed because of unfounded information,” she said. Satish Dhupelia, Sydenham Community Policing Forum (CPF) communications officer, said citizens resorted to vigilantism because they had lost faith in the law and its enforcers. “However, the CPF does not condone such behaviour,” he said. Johan Burger, a senior researcher at the Institute for Security Studies, said the main reasons people resorted to vigilantism include a lack of information and trust in formal processes. He said vigilantism could be more common in rural communities because the distance between the complaint and the police was much greater than in urban areas. He said a citizen’s arrest, as described by Section 42 of the Criminal Procedure Act of 1977, allows citizens to arrest someone for certain crimes. “A citizen can arrest someone, inform the police, then hand the person over to the police as soon as possible,” he said. He said under Schedule 1, citizens could make arrests for murder, rape, robbery, assault with a dangerous weapon and burglary. Daily News