It was arguably the most dramatic episode in sport to occur live on TV in South Africa. Willemse, a former Springbok wing and the SA Player of the Year in 2003, told a stunned TV audience that he was “not going to be patronised by two individuals who played in the apartheid era”. He said “he could not work with people who undermined him”. A national Sunday newspaper quoted a source as saying that Mallett, while off-air, had asked the show’s producer to give Willemse a chance to speak first following the Lions’ win over the Brumbies because Mallett and Botha had made all the comments after the preceding match between the Sharks and Chiefs. The source claimed Willemse felt Mallett’s request was patronising. Sports Minister Toko Xasa has acted decisively by calling on SuperSport to suspend Mallett and Botha because “It is clear that Ashwin Willemse was referred to as a quota player by his fellow panellist despite his many successes on the field of play”. SuperSport spokesperson Clinton van der Berg said an investigation was under way and that preliminary talks had been held with Willemse yesterday and interviews would continue today with Mallett and Botha. Van der Berg said the broadcaster “needed to gather all the facts” before making a statement and hoped to do so today. Meanwhile, a number of former Springbok players were in the dark yesterday as to what had happened. AJ Venter, an occasional presenter for SuperSport, said he had spent the day on the phone to his rugby network but nobody, including Butch James, a current SuperSport presenter, had any idea what had transpired before Willemse’s protest. Mark Andrews, a much-decorated Bok and World Cup winner, was equally puzzled. He commented on his tempestuous relationship with Mallett when the latter was coaching the Boks in the late 1990s. “While Nick is very knowledgeable, he is also very opinionated,” Andrews said. “He and I butted heads many a time and were never on friendly terms. However, in my years under Nick, I never once picked up anything that suggested he was racist. “I think this could be a rugby issue between a veteran of the game, whose strong opinions can rub people up the wrong way, and a younger presenter, who may well have been undermined but felt it was also a race issue,” Andrews said. “This incident is sad because Ashwin (25 years younger than Mallett) has been building a very good career as a quality presenter and Naas and Nick have a wealth of knowledge. Hopefully it can be amicably settled.” There is much support for Willemse and criticism of Mallett and Botha, summed up by rugby author and journalist Mark Keohane, who served as Springbok media officer under former coach Harry Viljoen. Keohane said: “Willemse’s protest is about the subtle and overt prejudices he has faced in a studio environment over a sustained period of time. His stance is to be applauded as a catalyst for change, not further belittled through ridicule.” Mallett, Botha and Willemse could not be reached on Sunday. Daily News