Those who need to register and collect their UIF money must now travel to offices outside the city. The situation is not new - it’s been this way for almost two years, when the Labour Department’s offices on the Esplanade (near the Durban High Court) were closed. The building is huge, measuring 5141 square metres and rising seven floors, but it was closed in September 2016 for a number of reasons, mainly because it was unsafe and unhealthy for those working there. Teboho Thejane, the labour department’s spokesperson, was not prepared to comment other than to confirm that the building remained closed. He added that it belonged to the Department of Public Works. The department’s other offices are in Pinetown, Prospecton, Verulam, Chatsworth and Phoenix. But it is not just those collecting UIF who are affected. When the Daily News visited the deserted offices recently we encountered Maki Mogale from Newlands. She runs a small business and needs a letter of good standing from the department because she is in the process of putting together a tender for eThekwini. According to Mogale, there were two issues that frustrated her. The first was the “lack of communication” by the department and the second was the inconvenience the offices’ closure had on citizens. Tenders “I was disappointed to find the doors closed. I was supposed to submit subcontracting tender documents the next day, but I couldn’t because I had no time to go to the other offices. Had I known, I would have gone to those offices instead, but there was no proper communication when the building was closed, and there is no proper communication now,” Mogale said. Her sentiments were echoed by Jabu Mkhize, who was also there to collect documents. He said although there was a Public Works office at the Royal Hotel in Anton Lembede (Smith) Street, that office did not offer the services he needed. Thami Mchunu, a spokesperson for the Department of Public Works, said the prohibition notice was issued by the Department of Labour on September 26, 2016. “A prohibition notice was issued due to non-compliance of certain areas of the building with the Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Act. “Rain coming in from leaking roofs, damaged ceilings, unsafe electrical installations being exposed to rainwater, a pigeon infestation and pigeon droppings posed serious health hazards,” Mchunu said. He said maintenance project had been registered by Public Works to fix the building when the prohibition notice was issued. However, the project was then still in its planning phase and the planning and technical documentation had now been completed. “The tenders have already been advertised and applications closed on April 16. Tenders are currently being adjudicated for awarding to the successful bidder. “The project should be handed over to the successful bidder before the end of July,” he said. Mchunu could not say how much had been budgeted for the refurbishment of the building. “You’ll have to send those questions via e-mail and I’ll forward them to the relevant people,” he said. Daily News