Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo has made an impassioned plea to nurses raise their voice and speak up when doctors take "short cuts". Addressing a nursing conference at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital on Tuesday that was attended by practising and retired nurses, Dhlomo said it was imperative for nurses to regain the public’s confidence. The department is on a drive to get retired nurses to mentor younger nurses and revive good and professional nursing ethos in an effort to "get back to basics". Among the issues on the agenda were the lack of quality clinical care; lack of leadership role, lack of patient advocacy; the declining status of nursing and lack of discipline. Lack of accountability and responsibility also made it on the agenda. Dhlomo said it was the nurses responsibility to close the gap for the sake of the patient and to close that gap where a doctor or pharmacist has not properly communicated information with the patients. He related to two incidents in two unnamed healthcare facilities where patients were treated “inhumanely”. “I received a phone call from a police officer this weekend to say ‘MEC I am frustrated I don't know what to do. I have a patient here in my car who has been raped’. The officer had taken the patient to a facility where an instruction was given by a doctor that the officer takes the patient to another facility because she was coming from too far. I sent a message to the facility and said I want to speak to that mad doctor. I then called the officer to say take the patient back to the facility,” Dhlomo said. He said the doctor was not prepared to examine a rape victim. “The question I have is where were the nurses at the facility? Where was the matron in charge? How could they allow such inhuman treatment being meted out to a patient and frustrate the police officer? I’m still waiting for the report from that doctor,” Dhlomo said. In another hospital, a patient was discharged after suffering from a stroke. The relatives called to say they did not know how to handle their mother as they were not informed by the medical staff. Dhlomo asked where the nurses are when the doctor’s take shortcuts. Pam Msimango, chief director of the Ethekwini Health District, said the conference was a culmination of a series of engagements by Dhlomo following his 2017 budget address. Daily News