Sadia was shot on Monday in a botched hijacking in Chatsworth. Human Settlements and Public Works MEC Ravi Pillay, DA leader Mmusi Maimane and the party’s provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango were among thousands of mourners at the funeral in Shallcross on Tuesday. They expressed anger at the murder. Pillay said the country had sufficient policies and systems to fight crime, but he questioned their implementation, saying public servants must do their work. “One of the speakers (at the funeral) said we must feel the presence of the law,” said Pillay. He said the government should give the same attention to KZN’s crime-ridden areas as it did to Glebelands Hostel, where he said 
the crime rate had been brought down. Pillay said he had spoken to  Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda and Police Minister Bheki Cele, who both assured him they would pay personal attention to “this horrendous crime”. “Minister Bheki Cele is also going to visit the (Chatsworth) police station to ensure the investigation and preparation for court is ­thorough and diligent,” said Pillay. Mncwango called on Cele to hire more police officers, and pay them well so they would be encouraged to do their job. “Crime has become a problem and a threat to the economy as no business person wants to invest where even citizens are not safe. “You can’t walk on the street whenever you want, you cannot feel comfortable when your kids are outside,” said Mncwango. Maimane said it was imperative the country had a police service that would ensure the streets were safer. He said the murder rate was too high for a country that was not in the midst of a civil war. He said he would tell Parliament it was a disgrace that while the country was commemorating Child Protection Week, a young girl’s life had been taken by crime. “What kind of society are we going to live in when our children are being killed in this manner? “We are grieving today, but we are also angry as a society because we are asking ourselves how many more children must die before we capacitate police stations like Chatsworth to be more effective at fighting crime,” he said. Daily News