Khumalo, 21, a quantity surveying student, was murdered on May 1 in the room on the first floor of the Lonsdale student accommodation, home to more than 600 students. Entering the building on Dr Pixley KaSeme (West) Street in the busy business and accommodation vicinity on South Beach, one is quick to notice the lack of security at the entrance. Police Deputy Minister 
Bongani Mkongi and Khumalo’s family visited the university residence soon after Mzolo’s court appearance on Thursday. Mkongi wanted to assess the security measures at the residence, while some members of Khumalo’s family visited the crime scene for the first time. The family members were shocked at the way Mzolo had behaved earlier in the Durban Magistrates Court, when he showed people the middle finger. At the Lonsdale building, some of Khumalo’s cousins held hands as they walked into her room. One of the security guards, who had rushed to the scene moments after the shooting, told them that Khumalo had been sitting at the desk near the door when her alleged killer walked in. The guard then showed them the spot where she fell to her death. Khumalo was laid to rest last weekend at her home in Eshowe. The family had expected to hear on Thursday if her alleged killer would get bail, but the matter was adjourned because Mzolo was unable to provide an address. According to the prosecution, Mzolo’s grandmother in Escourt had told the police that he did not live with her and therefore she could not verify the address. Although there were security guards at the Lonsdale building who were said to search students before they could enter, Mkongi was concerned that the building managers did not put the safety of students first. The previously vandalised building was in the final stages of renovations. One of the owners of the building, Viyase Dass, who later joined the walkabout, denied Mkongi’s accusations that the building did not take the safety of students seriously. Theft and rape Mkongi had confronted him about why there was no detector machine at the entrance and why there were no burglar guards on the windows, especially on the lower floors, where students were at risk of theft and rape. “The security and safety of the students starts with the management. It is unfair and selfish because the government pays a lot of money to universities for student accommodation,” Mkongi said. “How do you apply for student accommodation when you have no proper security in place? “I entered through an open space: there was no gate, no controlled access; anyone can just enter here,” Mkongi 
said. Dass could not give Mkongi an explanation as to why they had neglected safety while they were busy with renovations. Mkongi said the building management was told in February when they were given the contract that they had to beef up security at the residence. “We have done our best. In fact, we have made this building the best student accommodation in Durban,” Dass responded. Mkongi urged building owners to stop chasing money at the expense of students. “I am going to monitor that the safety of the students is made a first priority. “We are going to investigate the security companies 
guarding our institutions to see if they are registered,” Mkongi said. Students at the building said they had feared for their own safety after the murder. A student said it was hoped that once the renovations were completed, the building would be safer. Mkongi said he would return to Durban on June 19 when Mzolo appeared in court for a formal bail application. “We are going to make sure that he does not get bail. We have confirmed that the 
addresses he provided were fake. “By the mere fact that he showed the magistrate and the people in court the middle 
finger, shows that he is willing to kill again,” Mkongi said. Daily News