Durban-  Police officers from the Provincial Task Team, Special Task Force and K9 Unit followed up on intelligence reports with regards to the suspects involved in the jewellery store robbery at Ballito junction on Monday. On Tuesday morning the police officers approached a house at Piesang River in Inanda. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, KwaZulu Natal police spokesperson, said as the police officers approached the house the suspects opened fire at them. "Two suspects were fatally wounded during the exchange of gunfire. Two unlicensed firearms and ammunition were seized from the deceased suspects. The investigation into the armed robbery at Ballito continues. Attempts are underway to trace and arrest the remaining suspects involved in the incident,"Mbhele said. Police will send the firearms for a ballistic test to establish if they were used in the commission of any crimes in the country. Speechless is what Cherry Design Jewellers store owner had to say in reaction to the latest hold up by men dressed in police uniforms at the Ballito Junction Mall on Monday. Read: Bogus cops rob jewellery store The store has been robbed five times in the last 16 months said Kyle Cherry, director of Cherry Design Jewellers. "Honestly at this point, we are pretty speechless. People ask what more can be done? And I don’t have the answer" he said. Mbhele said the store owner was accosted by two suspects clad in police uniform. "The two suspects were joined by another three unidentified suspects. At gunpoint the suspects robbed him of cash, wrist watches and jewellery before fleeing the crime scene in their getaway vehicle,"Mbhele said. Kyle Van Reenen, Marshall Security spokesperson, said four men carrying handguns assaulted the security guard and then stormed the jewellery store just after 6 pm on Monday. A Daily News source said one of the men wore a full police uniform while another had on a police bullet-proof vest. Cherry contemplated on maybe going online and doing away with stores in shopping malls or building a store outside of a mall so one can have heavily armed guards at every exit. They have five stores in areas like uMhlanga, Ballito and Hillcrest "I do know that this string of robberies for all jewellers is killing the industry. My parents have built this company from the ground up since 1979 and now they must see it torn down over and over by thieves,"he said. South Africa, said Cherry, is being ravaged by crime and lawlessness. He called on the government to employ more police and enforce harsher punishment that prevents criminals from doing what they are doing. "Punishment should be to a degree that it deters the criminals not put them in prison with free food and housing while they wait years for a trial. My opinion is that the malls need to do more to protect the shop owners and the government needs to do more to protect the people because our country and industries are dying around us,"he said. Daily News