Bhani, who is currently serving a life sentence for the murder of hostel resident Sipho Ndovela whom he shot outside the uMlazi Magistrate’s Court in 2015, was also sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment on Friday for possession of illegal firearms. The 28-year-old was the first to be convicted for the notorious hostel murders that claimed more than 100 lives. His co-accused, 29-year-old Mbeko Duma, was also ­sentenced to life imprisonment and 15 years for possession of illegal firearms for his role in Ndebele’s murder. Bhani and Duma were arrested by the Lamontville community soon after they had shot Ndebele at the local community hall before a taxi association meeting on June 11, 2015. Ndebele’s execution-style killing led to more deaths within the association, including of his son. Some residents at the hostel received Bhani’s conviction with jubilation. One of the residents said the sentence restored their faith in the police and the justice system. “Bhani’s conviction and the two life sentences hanging over his head is not justice for the Ndovela and Ndebele families, but it is justice for all of us who lived under constant fear for our own lives at the hostel. This second life term will ensure that he will be in prison for a very long time and away from society,” said the resident. Another resident, who also did not want to be named, said Glebelands would become a better place and free of hit men if people worked with the police. “We are starting to have faith in the police after the recent arrests of certain people who were terrorising the residents. “The courts have given justice to the victims and handed down the kind of sentence that serves as a warning to other would-be offenders,” said the resident. Dangerous He said courts should continue to remove people like Bhani from society. Durban High Court Judge Kate Pillay described Bhani and Duma as dangerous people. She said they deserved to be locked away for a very long time. Outside the court, Ndebele’s wife said she was grateful her husband’s killers would probably spend the rest of their lives in jail. KwaZulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner, Major-General Bheki Langa, applauded the investigating team. He said investigators were working around the clock to ensure that there was peace and stability at the hostel. Langa said the sentence would bring hope to the community that police were determined to root out anyone responsible for the volatile situation. “We will ensure that we put all hit men linked to Glebelands hostel and taxi-related violence as well as other serious and violent crimes behind bars indefinitely,” he said. Daily News