And the “new” airport - where the first flight took off on May 1, 2010 - has received so many awards that general manager Terence Delomoney is considering building a special display cabinet in the terminal. The accolades include being named the best regional airport in Africa for the past four years, the fourth best airport in the world in the 5 to 10 million passengers category, for the best airport staff in Africa (all by Skytrax), and being named the third best in Africa in the 5 to 10 million passengers category by the Airports Council International. The “old” Durban International Airport, built in 1955 and which underwent major upgrades in 2001, had moved 4.4millionpassengers a year. The big move to the R7billion KSIA, 35km north of Durban, happened just six weeks before the 2010 soccer World Cup, which saw thousands of extra tourists flood into the region. Since then, passenger seat capacity has increased from 6million to 7.5million. The compounded average growth rate over the past three years is 7% for seat capacity, and 8% for passenger numbers. Now about 5.6million passengers move in and out of the airport. The number of international arrivals has increased from 96000 a year, to 370000. At the time of the move, Emirates was operating a daily route to Durban, while Air Mauritius was operating a twice-weekly service. Since then, Emirates has upgraded the size of its planes on the popular Durban-Dubai route, and Air Mauritius has increased flights to three a week. And as a result of the “huge effort” of the KZN Route Development Committee (involving the city, province, Airports Company South Africa, Dube Trade Port, Tourism KZN, Trade & Investment KZN) and private stakeholders, Turkish Airlines, Qatar, Proflight Zambia and Air Namibia, which also calls into Botswana, now also operate flights to Durban, in addition to SA Air Link operating a route to Maputo. Qatar and Turkish Airlines fly in four times a week, via Johannesburg, and the hope is to convert these routes into direct ones and increase frequencies. Seven domestic airlines now fly to KSIA. Planes fly to Port Elizabeth, East London, Nelspruit, George, Bloemfontein, Johannesburg and Cape Town. Delomoney said there was plenty of land to cater for any future needs, and catering for 50million passengers a year. It is envisaged that there will be an airport hotel, and there is also the possibility of a public viewing deck. About R300m has been allocated to create two new parking stands for large-bodied planes later this year. Delomoney said that KSIA was also a diversion airport for planes from Gauteng’s ORTambo International Airport. The money would also be used to extend one of the taxiways to improve safety and efficiency for aircraft manoeuvring. A baggage carousel had been extended in the international arrivals hall, while the minibus taxi holding rank would get a facelift. The retail area in the domestic departure terminal would also be reconfigured. “We are looking forward to refreshing all the stores by the end of the year. The tender has just gone out for 22 opportunities,” Delomoney said. Daily News