With Mother’s Day being celebrated on Sunday, Waters said parents - and mothers in particular - should know that “there is nothing that you cannot fight in life”. Waters was born with a congenital heart defect, patent ductus arteriosus. “Doctors always told my family that my life expectancy would be 16 years. When I was 13, I became the first successful heart operation patient at Wentworth Hospital in the 1950s.” Waters is a mother of two - Roseanne Lever and Roderick Waters. She’s also a grandmother of six and a great-grandmother of two. She recalled how during her second pregnancy she was told her baby boy would not survive. “There were complications because my blood hadn’t bonded with his. They said I’d have to terminate, but I refused. My son was born three days later. I had him christened while he was still in an incubator. Today, Roderick manages a cheese factory in Joburg,” she said proudly. “When I look at my children, grandchildren and great-grand kids, they truly are a miracle to me.” Waters said you could never tell what would happen in your life. “God has been so good to me through so many crucial things that have happened in my life.” With her children all established with their own families, some of her grandchildren are overseas and either married or engaged. The great-grandchildren are keeping her on her toes with their regular Sunday visits for “gran-gran’s” signature salads. Waters said she had been blessed. She was a stay-at-home-mom for 16 years, and then a working mum after she got divorced. Having worked at a department store, she ran her own interior decorating company, managed a farm in Elandskop, ran a poultry operation for a while and then managed a girls’ school in Ixopo. Today, she volunteers in the administrative offices at The Association for the Aged (Tafta) Lodge in South Beach, Durban. Having experience on both sides of the fence, Waters shared a few tips. “When it comes to children, just show them unconditional love. It’s difficult raising children and even more difficult when you are raising them in trying circumstances, but there is nothing that you cannot overcome. You will make mistakes, but you are only human. Just get back up and get on with life.” She felt it was always important to show children how important they were to you. “And it doesn’t work with cellphones, tablets and computers. Help them to understand who they are, what they want to accomplish, and what their purpose in life is. That’s what I always tried to instill in all my children.” Daily News