Durban - Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube said her department was preparing a comprehensive report to brief the national Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize in what steps have been taken following recent developments in some municipalities around the province. Addressing the media at the department’s offices in Mayville on Wednesday, Dube-Ncube said the developments in eThekwini, Msunduzi, and Endumeni Municipalities were a concern and that her department would do whatever it takes to bring stability in these municipalities. She, however, said there was no crisis in KwaZulu-Natal and that all office bearers were free to perform their duties without fear. On eThekwini, Dube-Ncube said her department was preparing a comprehensive report to the national minister on the work done so far to handle the alleged threats leveled at the Auditor-General’s officials. “We have noted with extreme concern the media reports that threats were allegedly made against the AG’s team at eThekwini Municipality. Since the reports surfaced in the public domain in eThekwini, we have dispatched a high-level team of Cogta officials led by the head of department Thando Tubane, and the team has engaged with the municipality. The reported threats seem to have emanated from outside the municipality and the city, working with the law enforcement agencies will look into all the security measures to be provided to counter any threats against any individual from the AGs office,” she said. She said KZN municipalities were no banana republics and in general, they act within the law. “What we wish to indicate here is that all of us, the mayor, municipal manager, national minister and all of us that are working in the office of the auditor-general have given assurance that we shall not tolerate any action that threatens the AG’s audit team. On our side, we gave an assurance that any plan that is put in place is to ensure that the AG is doing their work without fear and free from threats. We cannot promote any action that seeks to hinder auditing work and will ensure that support for conducive working environment exists for the auditing teams,” she said. The briefing is underway. Daily News