Durban- Tributes are pouring in for the much loved Ridge Park College mathematics teacher, SE Naidoo who has been described as a "maths guru". The Reservoir Hills resident died at his home after a short illness on Tuesday.  Ridge Park College announced his death on their Facebook page. "We sadly announce the passing of Mr SE Naidoo, a Mathematics guru, a brilliant Mathematics educator and the Vice Principal of Ridge Park College until he retired a few years ago. He will be sorely missed by all members of staff and ex-learners of our school. Our prayers are with his wife and family as they preserve through these tough times," a statement on the school's Facebook page said. Former and current Ridge Park school pupils immediately took to social media and shared the memories they had with him. Here is what some pupils had to say: Nomzamo Hope Nxumalo:  "Just yesterday I was talking about how he'd occasionally come to class with a small scrap of paper on which he'd written a maths problem he'd thought of in the middle of the night, that we'd have to solve. May his loved ones find joy in knowing that he lived a life of great and most positive impact". Mervin Munsamy: "RIP Sir..Teachers that taught like you are a memory of the past. We salute your passion and commitment to Education" Maureen Jones: "A brilliant man. A shining example to all. Always the gallant epitome of the respected gentleman. He will be sorely missed. As an outstanding teacher and human being." Geeta Singh: "My favourite teacher of my most loved subject... Maths. May his soul find the light and continue its journey to source. I can imagine him meeting up with Einstein and arguing about a few theories...." Avidh Devraj: "He was one of those rare educators that challenged us and made the subject enjoyable. Rita Patel: I'm am greatly saddened by this news...he was a true master of his craft ....a legend...he is fondly remembered by the many he touched in his lifetime....may his soul make a peaceful journey Pam Moodaly:  "A true stalwart and a great loss to the teaching fraternity. He leaves fond memories for most of us past students of Gandhi Desai." Daily News