Ncumisa Mafunda, Department of Health spokesperson, said since the severe storm in October last year - which claimed 14 lives and damaged infrastructure - the department has been repairing the affected facilities. Mafunda said that although there were delays concerning supply chain management issues after the disaster, progress has been made at some facilities. “Waterproofing of the roof at Addington Hospital’s oncology unit was completed ahead of schedule, on May 15; repairs to sections of KwaDabeka Community Health Centre, which included the replacement of its ceilings, light fittings, smoke detectors, wall repainting and replacement of ceramic floor tiles; have also been completed ahead of the stipulated date of September 11. “Finally, 55% of the required repairs to King Edward VIII Hospital - which experienced the most severe damage - have been completed. Other health facilities, which sustained relatively minor damage, are still under repair,” Mafunda said. She said the department apologised to the affected communities and patients for any inconvenience experienced as a result of the damage caused by the storm. “The KZN Department of Health will continue to accelerate efforts to ensure that the public has access to services they need. The department thanks its staff and the public for their patience, co-operation and understanding during the repair process,” she said. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson for health, said it was worrying that the storm season was fast approaching and repairs had not been completed since last year’s storm. “The funds have been allocated. Half was given last year and the other half this year,” Keeka said. “At King Edward Hospital, the staff have downed tools because of the working conditions,” he said. “The last inspection I did at King Edward was about four months ago. Work was in progress, but it was far from completion.” He was told most of the repairs at Wentworth Hospital, which required R24.8m to repair the storm damage, were taking place rapidly. He felt the Health MEC and his department should be held accountable and he planned on visiting the hospital to check on the repairs. Two people were crushed by a wall at Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital. The department has not commented on the wall repairs. Daily News