This was according to Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda at the launch of Transport Month in the city. He said the department had visited some of these companies and would visit others soon. Kaunda said labour law stipulated that employers could import skills not available in the country. “What we found is that many companies did this without authorisation from the Department of Labour,” he said. The Daily News reported earlier this year that 62 truck drivers were arrested for blockading the N3 between Durban and Johannesburg, complaining about companies hiring foreigners as truck drivers. A special operation was in the pipeline where the Transport, Labour and Home Affairs departments would work together in swooping on truck operators who hire an excessive number of foreigners, said Kaunda. Train violence was another issue being addressed. Kaunda admitted there was a problem with ageing infrastructure. He said some trains dated as far back as 1956. “We ask people to be patient, even with the little service that they are receiving. We will not lie and say that this old infrastructure will be fixed within a year,” he said. Last month angry uMlazi train commuters torched cars at the J-section train station in the township. The damage resulted in train operations being stopped on the uMlazi and KwaMashu routes, the biggest in the city. Kaunda added that government workers had a reputation of being lazy. He said there was a perception that people who worked for the government had made it in life and stopped working hard when they worked for the state. Kaunda said some of these people spent their days doing nothing and provided poor services to the public. “We get criticised for lazy work,” Kaunda said. The poor work ethic and corruption needed to be addressed, he said. Kaunda had also conducted raids at flats in the Point area with the police looking for drugs. He said some people there had received tip-offs which could only have come from corrupt police officers. This also needed to be addressed. Daily News