Durban - This Saturday Durbanites are invited to join a fun ‘City Clean-Up’ drive where the streets of Durban will be cleaned ahead of the second annual FNB Durban 10K CITYSURFRUN that will be held on Sunday. The “Durban City Clean-Up” will start at 7am on Saturday with volunteers meeting up at the Durban City Hall. PETCO, a partner for the event, will provide bags and gloves that will be used during the clean-up, while Sagren Moodley, a private local waste management contractor, will oversee the collection and sorting of the litter that will be collected. Janine Basson, PETCO stakeholder and relations manager said they are thrilled to once again be involved with the FNB Durban 10K CITYSURFRUN City Clean-Up. “PETCO’s mission is to grow the collection and recycling of PET plastic, after consumer use. We believe clean-ups have an important role to play in shifting South Africa away from a ‘take-make-dispose’ system to a circular economy by ensuring that valuable resources, such as PET plastic bottles, are diverted from landfill and collected for recycling. PET plastic bottle recycling in South Africa, which PETCO is responsible for, is doing very well. A 65% recycling rate was reached in 2017, which means 5.7 million bottles were collected for recycling each and every day in 2017,” Basson said. She said by partnering with an event such as the FNB Durban 10K CITYSURFRUN, they are able to move off the sidelines and into the thick of consumer and civic responsibility. “Plastic touches us all, whether directly or indirectly, and it is imperative that we come together to be part of true sustainability when the opportunity (such as this clean-up) presents itself. PETCO will sponsor the bags and gloves that will be used during the clean-up,” she said. Moodley said he is proud to be involved with the 2018 FNB Durban 10K CITYSURFRUN. “My focus is to ensure that the clean-up process is done speedily and efficiently. After the event we will separate the recyclable waste from the non-recyclable waste. The non-recyclable waste will be disposed of at the Marianhill Landfill site,” he said. Daily News