Gordhan was a keynote speaker at the Durban Girls’ College’s Founders’ Day on Monday night. He said President Cyril Ramaphosa was working on “a stimulus and recovery package” to develop the economy. “Part of the stimulus and recovery package is firstly to remove some of the constraints that have been placed, like uncertainty around the mining charter. “That would encourage businesses both in South Africa and elsewhere to make decisions which are going to last between 20 and 30 years. “The second will be to reprioritise the current expenditure of the government so that we find R50 billion to redirect particularly for jobs for young people. “So that by the time you become economically active your parents and ourselves would have taken our growth level to 3% and more, and more jobs would have been created,” he said. Gordhan said he held the first meeting with members of the newly appointed board of one of the state entities - which he did not name - and discovered a forensic report which had been not acted upon. He said the report had revealed that more than one or two of the directors of the old board had been involved in corruption. “We will look at the forensic report to find out who took how much, which is a very polite way of saying who stole how much. “We have to see how we recover the funds that have been taken because those are your funds and to pay back the money is what we are going to require those people to actually do,” he said. He said Ramaphosa had proven himself to have a different vision from his predecessor, Jacob Zuma, who he did not mention by name. He said Ramaphosa was a president who had clear ideas about young people, adding, “We have to grow and develop in our own society to overcome bad elements.” ‘In the first instance, we have got to discover what the truth is in what we call state capture, and we have to connect the dots and understand what was this phenomenon is. “The Zondo Commission of Inquiry is beginning to show us that,” he said. He said the government had a responsibility to stabilise state entities financially “as after seven to 10 year of malfeasance there is a level of financial instability in many of these institutions”. “In the third week of this month we have to all scramble around for some of these entities to able to raise sometimes R100 million, sometimes slightly more or less in order that workers in these entities can be paid salaries, and to ensure that operations of these entities get off the ground,” he said. Daily News