Durban - The World Wildlife Fund has released its top 10 plastic offenders list in South Africa. The organisation is calling on the public to reduce their dependence on the use of products made of plastic. The WWF South Africa stated on their website that you are likely to come face-to-face with plastic waste reality on South Africa’s beaches. The WWF website said plastic is a manmade substance, derived primarily from oil and coal. A relatively small fraction of plastics is made from natural sources, such as sugarcane residue. The polymers from which plastics are made contain various chemicals to give them the properties they require, such as hardness, strength, density and heat-resistance. The website added that single-use plastics, most common in the food and beverage industry, are typically cheap, produced in bulk and carelessly discarded without being reused or recycled.  Items such as stirrers, spoons and straws as well as sweet wrappers, disposable cutlery, cups and containers are used once and then thrown away, sometimes within less than half an hour of their use. A single-use plastic item, such as a coffee stirrer which you may use for less than a minute, can last for hundreds of years afterwards. What is the impact of all this plastic on wildlife? Marine animals often get entangled in floating plastic or abandoned fishing nets. Large or small plastics such as ropes, balloons, plastic bags and fishing line are also common culprits for painful entanglement. Many sea creatures also swallow plastics by accident or because they mistake it for food. Seabirds eat small bits of plastic and turtles can mistake a floating plastic bag for a jellyfish. The same applies on land where there have been countless instances of pets, farm animals and wildlife eating plastic. These various types of plastic pollutants not only have far-reaching and detrimental effects on the health of our oceans and marine animals but potentially on human health too through the seafood we eat, the effects of which are still being researched. What can you do? Consider where you can replace plastic items with better alternatives Think twice whether you need an item at all - by all of us consuming less, the problem becomes more manageable Follow the refuse, reduce, reuse mantra - and only then should you resort to recycling (see more on recycling in Plastic File #4) Daily News