Durban- The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture is fighting capture and corruption, MEC Themba Mthembu, said at a function for this year's planting season at the Ugu district municipality. Mthembu said: "We have been struggling with fighting corrupt practices and capturing of the department which has negatively affected the efficiency of service delivery, particularly the planting season. This could explain why we have been under attack by a well-orchestrated negative publicity to bring down the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development." He said they were working tirelessly to try and solve all the problems that caused the planting season to be late and asked stakeholders that the department not be used as a political tool by "unscrupulous people". Mthembu said they planned to have a “multi-planting season” to achieve their goal of planting more than 16 000 hectares and creating about 500 temporary jobs. He said the department was aiming at having 10 320 beneficiaries of which the majority would be women. “The term multi planting season was derived from different planting seasons for the warm and cool parts of the province. By having this strategic review, we were also able to promote commodities based on sustainability per planting season and enhance the capacity of farmers by supporting them optimize agricultural production throughout all seasons,” he said. Mthembu said using this approach they also helped farmers to attain maximum production during the planting season and mechanisation will be part of these efforts. “Even though the mechanization has yielded positive results and contributed in improving food production in KwaZulu Natal there have been challenges such as lack of technical skills, inadequate mechanisation training facilities, uncoordinated approach to mechanisation support and high incidence of breakdown of tractors and implements,” he said. Mthembu said he understood the problems farmers faced with mechanisation and will be looking into them to try and find solutions to the challenges they were facing. “Together we can find solutions to the unique challenges that are faced by smallholder producers in respect of markets and beneficiation in the entire value chain,” he said. Mthembu called on stakeholders to help the department not to be used as a political tool by unscrupulous people. He said the department had been fighting corrupt practices as there were people who were trying to capture the department which has affected service delivery. Daily News