Cosas secretary-general Khulekani Skosana at the time said the organisation would not stop encouraging pupils to defend themselves until abusive teachers changed their behaviour, telling pupils to fight fire with fire. He claimed they had reported incidents of corporal punishment to the Education Department, but nothing was being done, saying they would not tolerate pupils being treated like “animals”. Sadtu provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza said until Cosas withdrew its statement, violence against teachers at schools would continue to spread. But Cosas has stuck to its guns, saying it would not apologise for making the statement, and was not about to withdraw it. The high school pupils’ representative body said violent pupils were monsters created by teachers through corporal punishment. Caluza said more and more incidents of violence had been reported since Cosas made that statement. “Cosas must withdraw that statement. It has done a lot of damage. We are seeing the incidents as responding to their call because violent incidents were rare in primary schools,” she said. Last month, a 24-year-old teacher was stabbed to death by a pupil inside a classroom in Zeerust, North West. In another incident last month, a 15-year-old Grade 8 pupil pulled a gun on a teacher at Joburg’s Eldorado Park Secondary School. The stabbing of two pupils to death at Masakhaneni High School in Durban’s KwaMakhutha, the stabbing of another pupil at KwaMakhutha High School and the stabbing of another pupil at a school in Inanda last month have raised concerns about the safety of both pupils and teachers at schools. Cosas president John Macheke said teachers incited violence when they used corporal punishment, although it was illegal. He said pupils were merely copying and reflecting the violence they were being subjected to at the hands of teachers. “Sadtu should not forget that when Cosas made the comments in 2015, incidents of brutal corporal punishment were out of control, and still continue. What the pupils are doing now is responding to what they see happening. Teachers have created monsters. We cannot allow pupils to suffer abuse at the hands of teachers any more,” he said. Daily News