The court has encouraged the use of eco-friendly fireworks, which cause less pollution while making the same noise. The court made the decision after activists petitioned for a complete ban on fireworks to cope with severe air pollution in major centres. According to India’s Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, “green” crackers cause 30-35% less emission of particulate matter, and 35-40% less sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution. Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the South African Hindhu Maha Sabha, said they would welcome the use of eco-friendly fireworks. “We owe it to ourselves and the universe to use eco-friendly fireworks,” he said, calling on fireworks dealers to try to stock them. Ram Maharaj, president of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, also welcomed the use of eco-friendly fireworks. He said the Dharma Sabha had complained against the use of “big bangs” in 2001, and the loud fireworks were subsequently banned in 2002. With Diwali being around the corner, he encouraged Hindus to use them responsibly. Maharaj said the use of eco-friendly fireworks would benefit the environment and animals. Trikamjee said there was an “unnecessary prejudice” towards Diwali, as the fireworks set off during celebrations were small compared to those used on New Year’s Eve. He said sporting events also used fireworks. Trikamjee said the organisation had observed a decrease in the number of complaints received about Diwali celebrations over the past few years. He attributed this to the organisation campaigning for people to celebrate the festival responsibly during the hours when fireworks are allowed. South African fireworks expert Bonnie Pon said people wanted fireworks that did not make a loud bang. He had never received requests for fireworks that would minimise air pollution. Alice Thomson of Earthlife Africa said normal fireworks had potassium and aluminium compounds. She said the particles can deplete the lungs’ defences. Particles from the explosions go into the air, come down with rain and pollute the rivers, she said. Glen Tyler, of the environmental organisation 350, said they welcomed changes that could help towards a sustainable environment. “Unfortunately, climate change is a huge challenge. We need bigger, more systematic changes than only changing consumer options,” he said. Environmental Affairs Department spokesperson Albi Modise said fireworks were regulated by the Explosives Act. “It must, however, be noted that existing provincial by-laws regulating the prohibition, control and discharge of fireworks are silent on the use of eco-friendly fireworks to reduce the amount of atmospheric pollution likely to be produced,” he said. The department believed that the enforcement of existing by-laws would reduce air pollution. Modise said this included people not being allowed to set off fireworks within 500m of a nature reserve or 200m of a hospital, clinic, petrol station or old-age home. “The department has no plans currently to encourage or force the use of eco-friendly fireworks through legislation,” he said. Daily News