Sagren Moodley, manager at the municipality’s Vector Control Health Unit, provided this figure from the city’s most recent report, adding that they had treated 18 368 manholes. He said the rodents multiplied at a rapid rate, with one female having as many as 10 young. If unchecked, this could affect the city’s economy as well as the tourism industry, and cause the destruction of infrastructure. Thembinkosi Ngcobo, head of eThekwini Parks and Recreation, said the rats were found in supermarkets, salons and on the street where people sold food. The city also conducted research in the Cato Manor area, where there were many complaints of rat infestation. “Traps were set, but the rats were too big for them,” Ngcobo said. He said scientists from the Natural Science Museum were looking at the causes of the infestation. Some of the known causes include: * not keeping houses clean; * dumping of waste and garden refuse; * keeping building rubble at home; * littering in public places; and * buildings kept in poor condition. What concerned Ngcobo was that the rats were spreading to suburbs near the central business district. He said the municipality was currently training 40 people from Cato Manor to deal with the infestations. They also engaged with the community, who suggested that garbage be collected twice a week and for there to be larger bins. Ngcobo said this was not the only problem as Asian house rats, which have come through the harbour, were spreading and sometimes travelled in trucks along the N2. “They are all over,” he said. The danger from such an infestation is disease. Ngcobo said an integrated approach was needed by all the municipal departments to combat the problem. The municipality received 75 complaints about rats in 2017/2018. Earlier this year The Daily News reported that Durban North residents were dealing with a rat problem. A couple living in a block of flats had complained that the rodents had eaten through the wires in their car. The damage cost about R3000 to repair. Last month students at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Westville campus protested over poor conditions at the residences. They complained about rats eating their personal items and making holes in the walls. Daily News