The man, who cannot be named to protect his daughter’s identity, was handed the sentence at the Ntuzuma Magistrate’s Court on Friday. During the trial, it was established that the abuse started in 2016 when the man began to inappropriately touch his daughter - who is now 18 - which soon escalated to her being raped. The daughter’s mother died while giving birth to her, and she was dependent on her father. During her testimony, she said she fled to live with her stepmother in another province. However, due to language problems she struggled in her studies and soon returned to Kwa­Zulu-Natal to live with her father again, and the abuse continued. The daughter said her father used to request sexual favours in return for allowing her to do things like getting an identity document. He would often not let her go outside to play with her friends as he was afraid that she might report the abuse. She said she reached a point where she could no longer focus at school due to the abuse. The matter was reported to the police, who then arrested her father. At the trial, he argued that she had made up the charges, and that he was being accused because he was strict. Prosecutor Jenisha Sewbaran said the victim looked up to her father as a parent. She said it was highly improbable that she would make up the charges against him. The magistrate sentenced the father to 10 years on two counts of rape and five years for genital exposure, five years for sexual assault and five years for sexual exploitation. The sentences are to be served concurrently. This weekend police also reported that the Durban Regional Court had sentenced a 49-year-old Bluff man to two life terms for raping a 6-year-old child. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said the incident happened in November 2016. “He also took photographs of a child and circulated them The arrest follows an investigation by the team after intelligence was received of these sinister deeds at a residential premises in the Bluff,” she said. Childline KZN operations manager Adeshini Naicker said: “Children who are being abused can share this with an adult they trust; this could be a teacher, grandparents or relatives Children must be taught to trust their instincts and report any activity that makes them uncomfortable.” She encouraged children who were being abused to contact Childline KZN at 080 00 55 555. Daily News