Durban - Parents are being urged to vaccinate their children against the highly infectious whooping cough following a spike in a number of infections. According to the hospital group, Netcare, there has been a rise in the number of reported cases of whooping cough in South Africa this year, and families are cautioned to take measures to protect their young children from potentially becoming infected. “Whooping cough, or pertussis, is a vaccine-preventable disease that often presents with cold-like symptoms. It occurs in people of all ages but can be particularly serious for infants, as they have under-developed immune systems and are at high risk of developing severe complications such as pneumonia or encephalitis,” says Dr Peter Vincent of Netcare Travel Clinics and Medicross Tokai. “Whooping cough, which is a notifiable disease in South Africa, is an infection of the breathing passages with the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. It is usually spread through contact with respiratory droplets from coughs and sneezes. Parents, grandparents, siblings and other caregivers are often not aware that they have contracted the infection and may pass it on to the infants in their care without being aware that they have done so.” According to Dr Vincent, in its latest edition of its Communicable Diseases Communiqué, the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) reported an increase in the number of laboratory-confirmed pertussis cases in South Africa between January and August 2 108 compared with last year. He said that NCID stated that there were  90 confirmed cases of whooping cough in South Africa so far this year, 43% of which occurred in children three months and younger. And while there was no cause for panic, Dr Vincent said parents and caregivers should, however, be cautious and protect their children by inoculating them against whooping cough as per the requirements of the Expanded Programme on Immunization [EPI] in South Africa, which stipulates infants should receive a total of four pertussis vaccine doses at three, five, seven and 18 months. Dr Vincent said that ss many as a half of all infants under the age of one year who contract whooping cough require hospitalisation, which illustrates the potential severity that this infection can pose to them. Unfortunately, some babies with the infection do not develop the distinctive cough, so it is not always obvious that they have contracted pertussis, and in some cases, the first sign of the conditions when the child stops breathing,” adds Dr Vincent. Whooping cough is most common during winter months. Early symptoms may be similar to a common cold, including a runny nose, dry cough and slight fever. Symptoms may worsen and include long bouts of coughing that can, in turn, cause an individual to vomit. Symptoms generally worsen at night and the coughing can last up to ten weeks. Early treatment with antibiotics can assist in reducing the infectious period and reduce the severity of the infection. “Parents should seek urgent medical attention for their child should they show symptoms, including severe bouts of coughing, difficulty in breathing and/or turning blue during a bout of coughing, or if the child persistently vomits after coughing,” advises Dr Vincent. Daily News 