Durban - Ten months after it was launched from the Philippines in December 2017 as part of The Ocean Mapping Expedition, the Winds of Change scientific programme consisting in monitoring greenhouse gases at the surface of the oceans is revealing a first batch of spectacular and intriguing results. While Swiss sailboat Fleur de Passion, the platform of the expedition, has just arrived in Durban last week after her crossing of the Indian Ocean from Jakarta via Madagascar and Maputo, the onboard equipment continuously monitored the concentration of methane and carbon dioxide all along the track of the expedition. These results are providing reference field data both unprecedented and crucial to better understand the carbon cycle in the general context of climate change. Head of the Aquatic Physics Group at the Faculty of Science, University of Geneva, Professor Daniel McGinnis, said for the first time ever, the team has been able to assess and quantify the near-surface atmospheric methane and carbon dioxide concentrations while performing the longest longitudinal transect of an ocean, namely the Indian Ocean "From Jakarta where the sailboat left on 12 April to Durban, a total of 6,000 nautical miles (11,000 km) were continuously sampled by the expedition. This unprecedented data-set shows us that the Indian Ocean continues to be an important CO2 sink, though there are some intriguing peaks that need more investigation. More surprisingly, however, is that the Indian Ocean could be an unexpected sink of atmospheric methane," he said. McGinnis said in general, it is thought that almost all oceans and inland freshwaters are sources of methane to the atmosphere. "Over the Indian Ocean, the methane above the sea surface is Fondation Pacifique / The Ocean Mapping Expedition 1 consistently about 5-6% lower than atmospheric concentrations. Though more investigation is needed, it appears at first glance that the Indian Ocean may uptake atmospheric methane," he said. You can follow https://www.facebook.com/omexpedition/ for more information. The Mercury