Some of the trainees, employed at the department’s Truro House headquarters in Durban, have allegedly worked for more than two years without being paid. They are now taking the department to task for “using” them. Operations at Turo House could come to a standstill after about 100 interns and trainees approached a union to fight for them against what they described as their abuse and exploitation. The Educators’ Union of South Africa (EUSA) is now putting pressure on the department to fill the vacant posts being occupied by the interns and volunteers. EUSA president Scelo Isaac Bhengu said they had already met Education Department officials in an attempt to address the issue amicably, but to no avail. He said plans for the interns to down tools and to shut down Truro House were at an advanced stage. Bhengu said the department relied on the interns to run the biggest department offices in the province for free, as some of the interns’ stipends were paid through the Sector Education and Training Authority (SETA). “These young people are the engine running behind operations at Truro House. If the department is not willing to listen to them, they are not going to continue working,” he said. Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa would not be drawn to comment on the allegations. He said the department could not discuss contractual matters in the public domain. Some interns told the Daily News yesterday they had worked without pay in the hope that they would get employed in the department when their internships ended, while some with valid contracts said they had worked all of last year without getting a stipend until recently. They said they were frustrated because they ran the offices in place of department employees who had retired or died. An in-service trainee from Nquthu in northern KwaZulu-Natal said she worked all of last year without a stipend although she had been promised she would be paid R3000 a month. Another intern said she started working for the department in June this year, working from 7.30am to 4pm. Although her internship had ended and her stipend was cancelled, she continued to work as an unpaid intern. “I have to pay rent and buy groceries and clothes as we are expected to wear formal clothing to work. I am struggling to make a living and my family expects me to take care of them financially. My hope is to get recognised for a permanent position one day. The department benefited by bringing in more and more interns to work in the vacant posts,” she said. “We are thrown everywhere to do everything. Sometimes my boss sends me on errands outside the office to pay her personal accounts or sometimes to make tea for senior managers in the human resources department.” Thirona Moodley, of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), said it was true that there was a large number of interns working in vacant posts that had not been filled for years. She said the interns carried the workload and kept the wheels of the system running at Truro House. “Without those interns, the system at Truro would collapse. Unfortunately, out of desperation they have no choice. “There are about 147000 vacant posts that Treasury has frozen nationally. These young people are some of the many who make the decision to volunteer their services with the hope of getting employment when the vacant posts are advertised, but when is that going to happen? “These young people are aware that these posts are vacant and that their services are needed, but they have no leg to stand on when they don’t get appointed because the department does not have the money to make appointments,” she said. Moodley said they had knowingly entered the employment of the department as interns and as volunteers and now had no one to blame. “It is sad because these are graduates, but unfortunately out of desperation they allowed themselves to be used,” she said. Daily News