The building, which has been in existence since 1972, has collapsed ceilings in a number of rooms, and some of the bathrooms have caved-in ceilings and have been locked for the residents’ safety. Some of the residents have lived and worked at the centre for more than 25 years, earning a stipend from the Department of Social Development. In February last year, residents were handed eviction notices, which they disputed in court. The Legal Resources Centre, representing the residents, filed answering affidavits opposing the evictions. According to their attorney, Thabiso Mbhense, these affidavits were filed in March last year and the department only filed its response this year. “We are now just waiting for a court date (to argue the matter),” he said. The department had issued the eviction notices after residents refused to leave the building while the department was renovating it. Themba Shiba, who has lived at the centre since 1984, said: “We agree that the building is rotten and it needs renovations. We are willing to sit and talk to the department for renovations to go ahead.” He said residents had already received notices from the department informing them that they would no longer be receiving a stipend because the skills centre had been shut down. Department spokesperson Ncumisa Ndelu confirmed that residents were handed notices about the withdrawal of the stipends last Thursday. She said residents made cane products such as baskets at the skills centre, which the department sold to generate income. “The skills centre is no more and they are not producing any product so we can’t give them a stipend,” she said. One of the reasons residents gave for refusing to move out of the building for renovations to take place was because they had no guarantee that once it was renovated they would still be allowed to live there. When asked what would happen to the building once it was renovated, Ndelu said it was impossible to talk about the future when the present had not yet been dealt with. Daily News