Gigaba, in a statement from his department, last week announced his intention to take legal action against Tlhabi after a Twitter spat between the two. Tlhabi had accused him of changing South Africa’s visa regulations to suit his personal circumstances. Dr Freddy Mnyongani, of the School of Law at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, believed Tlhabi had a stronger case, while Zakhele Ndlovu, a UKZN political science lecturer, said it was not a smart move for Gigaba -who is suing in his personal capacity - to have issued a statement via the department. “It was also not a smart move for the department,” he said. Gigaba’s spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said the minister would be footing the legal bill for the lawsuit. Mnyongani said the law had to strike a balance between affording public figures such as politicians constitutionally protected rights, and at the same time allowing the public to enjoy its constitutionally protected right to freedom of expression. He said for a defamation claim such as this one, chances were that the court papers would be aimed at protecting Gigaba’s reputation in his personal capacity, and through that his reputation as a minister. “The law of defamation is aimed at protecting the right to reputation or good name. So at the core of his complaint will lie an allegation that his reputation or social standing has been lowered in the eyes of the public, particularly given the fact that the war of words took place on such a public platform such as Twitter,” said Mnyongani. He doubted that Gigaba would emerge victorious from this court battle.      Dear @RediTlhabi, did you know that the requirement for parents to consent to their children’s departure from SA is a provision of s18(3) of the Children’s Act of 2005? And did you know that the regulations giving effect to this requirement were adopted while I was still at DPE?  — Malusi Gigaba (@mgigaba) 
 September 26, 2018  “If the court decides in his favour, that would have a general chilling effect on members of the public; meaning that members of the public would be afraid to hold public figures and ministers accountable.”      For the record, @RediTlhabi, I’m not bothered by your using my name to ingratiate yourself to the band of uninformed incorrigible racists you’ve made a career out of sucking up to. Victimise my daughter again, though, and you’ll discover that I’m capable of sinking to your level.  — Malusi Gigaba (@mgigaba) 
 September 26, 2018  Mnyongani said the law afforded ministers protection, particularly on matters that have nothing to do with their suitability to hold public office.      Before I respond to you @mgigaba . let me just assist your fans who may not be aware of the PUBLIC action you took & in placing your family on a public platform. Reference is therefore not victimization. I will return to you.  https://t.co/ZGZ9tpCQAh via @SowetanLIVE https://t.co/TzZF8ct1rb  — Redi Tlhabi (@RediTlhabi) 
 September 26, 2018  “The Twitter war arose from a criticism levelled at the minister in his official capacity. The dividing line between the personal and the official is blurred in this case,” he said. He said one of the defences Tlhabi could raise in court was “truth for public benefit”.     I can't imagine you have any more levels to sink to. AGAIN I use PUBLIC not personal record. A court once found yr account "flawed, laboured and meritless, bad in law, astonishing, palpably untrue, untenable and not sustained by objective evidence, uncreditworthy and nonsensical” — Redi Tlhabi (@RediTlhabi) 
 September 26, 2018  “To succeed with this claim all she has to prove is that the information she published is not only true but is for the benefit of the public,” he said. Daily News