In one recording, an official said to be Phungula is heard referring to “corrupt c*****s” and “c*****s” five times. The recordings were not authenticated, but the city confirmed its investigation and suspension of Phungula pending the outcome of the probe. “In the recording, Phungula is heard on record having called deputy City manager Krish Kumar and other Indian colleagues ‘c*****s’, a highly derogatory and racist term. Phungula repeats the term five times over the course of the conversation with a colleague, who is heard laughing. The position Phungula holds requires a high level of professionalism, impartiality and ethical conduct. His racist disdain for Indian people, who make up a significant part of Durban’s population, is nothing short of disgraceful,” said DA caucus leader Nicole Graham. In the second recording, the official is heard arguing with his subordinate, who does not appear keen to drop a senior advocate appointed to chair the disciplinary hearing of Zandile Sithole, the city’s suspended supply chain management deputy head. Sithole was suspended on allegations of tender irregularities. Her hearing in March was interrupted by men claiming to be defenders of radical economic transformation. The official is heard telling his colleague: “All politicians want this mama (Sithole) badly. I won’t lie to you on that. Right from the mayor, the whole Exco et al - I’m under severe pressure regarding that mama’s issue.” Kumar would not be drawn to comment on whether he would take legal action against Phungula. He said allegations against “the colleague” were sensitive and he would allow due process to take its course. Attempts to get comment from the SAHRC were unsuccessful, and Phungula did not return calls and messages sent to his phone. A source said Phungula was charged and his matter was scheduled to be heard over October 22, 23 and 24. The source was sure of only two charges against him: using a racist term against his colleagues, and attempting to manipulate a disciplinary process. Asked to comment, municipal manager Sipho Nzuza said this was still an internal matter between the employer and the employee. Daily News