The department said it was all systems go for the 187 726 matric candidates who will sit for the exams. On Monday, 152 747 full-time candidates and 34 980 part-time candidates will sit for exams at 1 753 exam centres. The province has set the bar even higher this year, with a projected 7% increase in the pass rate, an increase from 66.4% in 2017 to 73%. Schools in the province are under pressure to improve the overall pass rate, improve the pass rate percentage in gateway subjects by a minimum of 10%, increase the number of bachelor’s passes by a minimum of 10%, eliminate schools obtaining 0% - 10% pass rates, and increase the number of 100% pass rates by 10%. Mthandeni Dlungwana, MEC for Education, said he was confident that the class of 2018 would make the province proud. Some teachers’ unions said they were optimistic they had prepared the pupils for the exams, and it was now up to the department to ensure exams ran smoothly. Bheki Shandu, deputy secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers’ Union, appealed to parents and members of communities to ensure that any community protests conducted during this time not affect the exams. Thirona Moodley of the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa said teachers had covered the curriculum diligently and were confident the pupils would do well. She appealed to the department to learn from past glitches and ensure that the marking process was smooth. The department said 27 centres had already been set up for marking from December 3 until December 14. Educators’ Union of South Africa president, Scelo Isaac Bhengu, was not convinced that the province would be able to achieve its goals given the challenges still facing schools, especially those in poor communities. “The rich schools are ready, but schools in the poorest communities are not ready. The department cannot say everything is ready when there are matric pupils who are going to write physics, but have never been inside a science lab,” he said. “At a school in Amaoti in Inanda, matric pupils were without a physics teacher for most of the year until early this month, because the regular teacher was on sick leave and no substitute teacher was placed. “The department should not expect such schools to contribute to good results. It is going to be extremely difficult for such schools to increase their pass rate, let alone to increase the number of bachelor’s passes,” said Bhengu. Daily News