Durban - “I may not live long enough to tell you this, but I am grateful to have worked with you”. Those were the last words that KZN songstress Busi Mhlongo said to jazz legend Sipho Hotstix Mabuse that he says he will always remember. Mhlongo on the 28th would have celebrated her 70th birthday. She died in June of 2010 after a long battle with breast cancer after enduring months of chemotherapy before then. October  is breast cancer awareness month and according to the World Health Organization (WHO) early diagnosis remains an important early detection strategy. Mabuse was amongst some of the musicians who had been part of a line up for a concert held at the Durban Playhouse a month before Mhlongo’s death which had been organised to help pay for the multi-award winning artist's hospital bills. He said after the concert he visited Mhlongo at her Morningside home and three days after that when he arrived back home in Johannesburg he received a call about her passing. “I am one of the few privileged people to have known Busi before she went overseas... a lot of people don’t know that the voice behind the song My Boy Lollipop was actually Busi, and she made her version of that song a smash hit in SA in 1963,” said the Burn Out star. He said when he was on tour in Holland at the same time as Mhlongo in 1993 he found that she had grown into her own identity and had become very influential and admired. “There Busi was, to them in Holland she represented an enigma and you could see most of them tried to dress and sing like her. I never imagined that someone I knew as a teen performer would influence nations,” he said. Mabuse said most people also did not know that Mhlongo was very politically aware and spoke her mind. “She spoke about issues frankly, she was a forthright person but she managed to do it without being offensive to others,” said Mabuse. Speaking on his last moments with her he said Mhlongo in her frail state never felt sorry for herself. “She understood that ultimately she would not longer be with us and so she made the most of the time she had”. Mhlongo was born Victoria Busisiwe Mhlongo in Inanda, northern Durban. In the 1960s, she adopted the artistic name Vickie, and it was only later she became known as Busi Mhlongo. In 2000, she scooped three Samas for Best Female Artist, Best Adult Contemporary Album and Best African Pop Album for her world-renowned album, Urban Zulu. Daily News