Durban - The eThekwini Municipality has announced plans to do away with "monopoly big business" scoring lucrative city contracts by getting small businesses at ward level a chance to bid for contracts. Mayor Zandile Gumede wants all legal businesses in former disadvantaged communities to register in the Ward Based Business Database so that they are in an advantageous position to "have a slice of the big pie" “The Municipality came up with this initiative to promote inclusive business growth and breed entrepreneurs. The campaign allows all businesses to be treated equally and have a fair chance of being awarded Municipal work. We want to do away with the monopoly of big business. We want to see big projects where our people live eradicating grinding poverty speedily. This is the position we have taken and we are not compromising in this regard," Gumede said in a statement. She said that with the Ward Based Business Database, the city will lead the rest of the country in implementing radical economic transformation. “We are on a mission to give fair opportunities to black and emerging entrepreneurs, youth, disabled and women. This database will also give an account of how many businesses have participated in certain projects. This will help us to ensure that those who never benefited are prioritised,” Gumede added. The current eThekwini Municipality Database and the Central Database does not cater for ward representation. According to the municipality businesses that want to register with the Ward Based Business Database must be compliant and have the following to register: •Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (CIPC) •BBBEE certificate •Valid tax clearance •CIDB (If applicable) •Proof of company address •Verification letter from Ward Councillor confirming the business is from the ward •Proof of company banking account •Copy of owner Identification Document The campaigns for the remaining areas will take place as follows: •On 09 – 10 October the campaign will take place at Pinetown Civic Centre from 09h00 •On 11- 12 October the campaign will take place in Hammarsdale at Mpumalanga Main Hall from 09h00 •On 15- 16 October it will take place in KwaMashu at KwaMashu G Section Community Hall from 09h00 •On 21 – 23 October the campaign will take place at Durban Exhibition Centre next to the ICC from 09h00  For more information about registration of businesses in the Ward Base Business Database people can contact Khosi Sithole on 031 322 7830 or email: khosi.sithole@durban.gov.za   Daily News