Durban - The eThekwini Municipality will set up a multi-sectoral task team to tackle homelessness in the city. A report tabled at an executive committee meeting recommended that the council supports task team that will aim to provide a platform for stakeholders within government and non-government sectors to highlight the plight of the homeless and commit to a solution-based approach. A workshop on the city's homeless problem was recently convened by the chairperson of the Security and Emergency Services Committee, Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer together with the Safer Cities Unit and other relevant City units. According to a census conducted by the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) in partnership with and funded by the eThekwini Municipality’s  Safer Cities Unit in 2016, found that close to 4 000 people live on the street and in homeless shelters in the central Durban area, of which approximately 85% are male. Peer welcomed the executive committee's decision to back the proposal to set up the task team. “I am glad this is of concern to all of us. There are many units in the city who are trying to tackle this issue on their own. We need to apply our minds and respond with one voice. That is why this task team is so important. It should also be noted that it is a societal problem that requires all hands on deck. As a society, we need to work towards resuscitating the family unit. That is where most of our problems start. A broken family unit usually breeds children that do not have any one to look up to. Our families are plagued with fathers who are absent resulting in mothers having to double up as fathers. Surely some struggle to play the role of a father figure like their male counterparts. I am certain that once this is addressed, our society would gradually produce less children that are drug addicts roaming the streets” she said. She said the task team comprises of community members, business people, non-governmental organisations as well as a representative from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. “There is good representation on the task team. Right now we have to apply our minds and come up with a budget as no funds have been allocated as yet. It is not easy to deal with the homeless issue in the City and the solution is not dumping them in a particular area. We are facing a mounting problem as the issue of homelessness is growing every day,” Councillor Peer added. Chairperson of the Human Settlements and Infrastructure Committee, Mondli Mthembu supported the initiative saying it was a good start to tackling this growing issue. Chairperson of the Governance and Human Resources Committee, Barbara Fortein said the formation of the multi-sectoral task team is a definite step in the right direction. She said homeless people need to be viewed as human beings as they are someone’s son, daughter or sibling. “We are all concerned about this issue. It is important for the City to meet with stakeholders to understand their needs and find out what resources and budget is required. The formation of this unit is definitely a step in the right direction.” Daily News