Phoenix resident Mohammed Ebrahim, 43, now a free man after his bail of R2 500 was paid by his family, flatly denies having anything to do with the Sydenham boy’s death. He maintains he learnt of Miguel’s death while in prison, where he spent a few weeks after being arrested for the boy’s abduction. “I was shocked when I heard the news that the boy was dead. People can say what they want to say. I don’t fear. I did nothing wrong,” he said. Ebrahim was speaking on Tuesday at a location his family did not want to be disclosed because they fear for their lives. He was arrested less than a week after Miguel’s disappearance was reported in July. After an extensive search, the boy’s decomposing body was found in a shallow grave in Longbury Drive, near Ebrahim’s house, last month. Ebrahim said he could not divulge much about the case on the advice of his attorney, Chris Gounden. However, he said he had lived in the Louw residence for about three months prior to Miguel’s disappearance, and had keys to the house. Their house was closer to the butchery he worked at in Alpine Road, thus more convenient for him. Ebrahim said he grew fond of Miguel. On the day of his disappearance, he fetched Miguel from school - he would not say whether this was a regular occurrence. When he heard that the boy was hungry, he took him to a KFC outlet and bought him a piece of chicken. Ebrahim said he then went to Phoenix and had nothing to do with the boy’s subsequent disappearance and death, adding that the law must take its course. Speaking of his time in prison, Ebrahim said the food was tasteless, but he had made many friends within the awaiting trial area of Westville Correctional Services. “If you do not infringe on anyone’s space, they won’t interfere with you. There were about 30 people in the cell. The person in charge of the cell told us where to sit and what to do. I was like a king in prison,” he remarked. Ebrahim was granted bail last month. However, his family only paid his bail last Tuesday. His freedom has been curtailed because he has to follow strict bail conditions, including reporting to the Phoenix police station three times a week. He is not allowed to make contact with the Louw family or go to Sydenham. “I cannot get a job. I cannot go here and there.” He laughed off rumours that he went to a butchery in Durban on Saturday, but had words of sympathy for his parents, who bore the anger of many people when he was arrested, and following the discovery of Miguel’s body. “My parents were stressed about the incident. They bore the brunt of the death threats and people coming to our home asking for me,” he said. Ebrahim claimed the police had not interviewed him after Miguel was found, although experts had gone through his parents’ home looking for clues and checking for any traces of DNA. Gounden said Ebrahim had not been charged with murder, but kidnapping. He said the charges could be amended at his next court appearance on October 17. Daily News