The draft report was recently released by Environmental Resources Management (ERM)and found that the expedition would have a minor impact on the environment and that oil exploration should go ahead. The consulting company does environmental, health and risk assessments. Sasol and Italian oil and gas exploration company Eni South Africa BV (Eni) are seeking to explore for “hydrocarbons” at up to six water wells off the coast of Durban and Richards Bay next year. The Daily News has reported that numerous public hearings were held about the oil exploration, which at times have become volatile as community members and environmentalists expressed their anger at the proposed venture. The 333-page draft report says the ecosystem within a radius less than 200m would be affected by the drilling. The report also found that helicopter flights to the drilling vessel would generate noise that could affect sea birds. “Low altitude flights over the ocean could also affect marine mammals and turtles in surface waters in the Project Area,” the report said. It also said they expected more than 13000 tons of carbon dioxide to be emitted into the air. These issues would have a minor impact on the environment, the report said. “In summary, based on the findings of this assessment and taking into account the benefits this project poses for the South African economy, ERM is of the opinion that the proposed exploration drilling activities on Block ER236 to determine whether there are sufficient hydrocarbons under the seabed to substantiate further development should be authorised,” it said. Desmond D’Sa, environmental activist from the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, scoffed at the report and called it misleading. He argued that if the drilling was allowed to go ahead it would destroy a large area. From his experience of having travelled to many countries where there were drilling operations, it was a disaster waiting to happen. Khalid Mather, from WildOceans, was disappointed with the draft report. He said drilling in the ocean was a problem as some of the material that was pulled up from underneath the ocean floor and pumped back into the sea was sometimes radioactive. This meant that radioactive material was introduced into the ecosystem. Mather said the carbon that was released into the air would add to global warming. Another danger was that of oil spills which could affect plankton which float on the sea’s surface. Plankton plays a pivotal role in the oceans’ ecosystem and could affect other marine life including events like the sardine run and tourism. “We are giving our oceans away,” he said. Daily News