“We were expecting him to walk through the door. It had not crossed our minds that he would never return home,” said his aunt, Sizile Ngubane. Phendukani Ngubane and fellow pupils from Izwelinjani Secondary School are said to have taken a lift with a teacher from a school sports event. It is believed the teacher was racing down Hholwane Road with two other motorists when he allegedly lost control of his car, landing bonnet first on a house. Ngubane said they heard about the accident while waiting at home for Phendukani to arrive. “It was getting dark and we were also getting worried as we thought he would be home by then. When we heard about the accident, we all rushed out there,” she said. Ngubane said that when they got to the scene, Phendukani’s body, which appeared to have been flung out of the car, lay lifeless on the ground. On Sunday, witnesses to the accident told the Daily News that there were empty beer bottles in the car, and that they could smell alcohol when they arrived at the scene of the crash. Ngubane said there was no driver in the car. Police on Sunday said the driver of the vehicle had fled, and was still being sought. Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said four pupils had died, including the two from Izwelinjani Secondary School, at the weekend. “The other two are from Fabeni Primary. They were involved in a car accident (between Greytown and Keates Drift) on their way back from Durban from a school excursion,” he said. Mthethwa added that a 14-year-old pupil collapsed while playing soccer in the uMzinyathi district. “He was transported to the local hospital where he was certified dead on arrival. Circuit officials visited the school and accompanied members of the school’s governing body to the pupil’s home the same day,” he said. Meanwhile, two pupils from Durban’s Redcliffe Primary were seriously injured after an alleged drunk driver ploughed into them on Quarry Road yesterday. According to Reaction Unit South Africa, the 25-year-old driver was arrested at the scene. Daily News