The seat became vacant when former eThekwini DA caucus leader Sharon Hoosen left for the provincial legislature. The Independent Electoral Commission yesterday said that eight political parties - the ANC, DA, IFP and five smaller parties - have candidates vying for the position. Leading up to the by-election, the DA alleged that Premier Willies Mchunu, at a recent Hertiage Day debate, had said Indians were not part of South Africa. Mchunu has rejected this, calling it a “dirty trick” because the DA was “taking a hammering in the by-election campaign in Chatsworth”.  * The ANC candidate is community activist and human rights lawyer Previn Vedan. He has spent the past three weeks on what he has described as a listening campaign.  “Visiting people in their homes and hearing their concerns firsthand has shaped my campaign. We have to listen if we are to be able to lead,” said Vedan. He said one of the challenges in the area was that various trucking companies had “set up shop” in the residential area, posing a danger to the residents, children and the municipal infrastructure. “The by-laws have been broken and I have committed myself to putting a stop to this,” said the 26-year-old. Finding common ground with the Bottlebrush informal settlement was also high on Vedan’s agenda. In his campaign manifesto he pledged: “Our future is together - a community of formal houses and informal settlements. Work with me to build unity and deepen non-racialism.” Having worked for some time in the Bottlebrush community as a human rights lawyer and a political activist, he has been advocating for legal electricity connections for the residents. He is confident that protests on Link Road because of electricity cut-offs will be a thing of the past once the electricity supply and other upgrades have been sorted. * DA candidate Fatima Ismail was upbeat about the race. She grew up, and still lives, in this ward, and said she had an in-depth understanding of the difficulties residents faced daily.  “I have seen our community degenerate over the years because of failing municipal services. I intend to change that. “One of the greatest challenges in ward 71 is to get the municipality to do its job in an effective and efficient way. “Simple and basic services like grass cutting and street sweeping should not require intervention,” she said. The 42-year-old said she intended to convene a meeting with all departmental officials to set up a programme of action to clean up the entire ward, once she was elected. “I will do this in conjunction with local structures so that we can ensure we keep our communities clean. “The issue of crime is also a massive problem in the ward. “Although the police fall under a different sphere of government, I will establish a network with provincial and local law enforcement, and insist on more regular patrols and visible policing measures in the community,” she said. She added that the city spent far too much money on protecting councillors, instead of directing those funds to protecting communities. “Finally, I take the principle of accessibility very seriously. Voters who go out to vote deserve to get access to their public representative when the need arises. “I have already begun establishing communication networks with local civic structures to ensure that they are able to reach me when the need arises,” she said.  * IFP candidate Zain Suliman said his vision was focused on creating an environment that was neat, hygienic and safe for all who lived in it.  He was going to focus on utilising vacant municipal land to campaign for housing for the most deserving, and to create homes to hand back dignity to the elderly who had added value in the community and paved the way forward for everyone else. “We will hold all service delivery departments accountable should there not be service delivery. “Should your expectations not be met, it will be my duty to call public/civic or community policing forum meetings to give feedback and collectively decide on a way forward to achieve our goals,” he said. Daily News