 A tenant from Johannesburg was distressed when she realised that she was paying for municipal service charges that were not part of the written lease agreement. When she examined the municipal bills, she noticed the amount she paid included charges relating to sewage, electricity for the common area, water used for the garden and electricity for the gardener’s quarters. In addition, she also paid for the power consumption of an electric fence and lighting around the complex. Attempts to resolve the matter with her landlord were unsuccessful. The rental housing tribunal was of no help because the “complaints clerk” refused to accept her complaint after perusing the lease. She explained that in terms of her lease, she was required to pay for charges consumed in the unit. Clause 4 of the lease stated that her rental excluded water and electricity charges and that she would be given monthly copies of the municipal bill. Clause 8 stipulated: “The tenant shall be liable for all electricity and water consumed in the premises during the currency of this lease. Any amounts notified as due by the landlord are to be included with the next month’s rental.” She brought these relevant clauses to the personnel’s attention but was unable to lodge a complaint. A reading of the lease with clauses 4 and 8 clearly lays down what the tenant is responsible for - “all electricity and water consumed in the premises”. If there were headings in the lease and these were in conflict with the body of the contract, then the body of the contract must prevail. In Sentinel Mining Industry Retirement Fund v Waz Props (Pty) Ltd [2012] ZASCA) judge Tom Cloete said it was common sense that where a heading conflicts with the body of the contract, it must be the body of the contract which prevails because the parties’ intentions are more likely to appear from the provisions they have spelt out than from an abbreviation they have chosen to identify the effect of those provisions. There is no need to interpret these clauses since they are simple. There are also no special rules of interpretation that apply to the service charges clauses. The parties’ intentions were clear since the headings were not in conflict with the body of the contract. In terms of common sense and logic, the relevant contractual provisions would be binding on the landlord. The tenant, in this instance, cannot be held liable for charges except for water and electricity consumed in her unit. However, it is not the dispute with the landlord, but the failure of the Gauteng Rental Housing Tribunal to accept an unfair practices complaint that is disconcerting. The tribunal personnel does not have the authority nor the qualification, skill and knowledge to make such a judgment call. In fact, even a member of the tribunal cannot pronounce an opinion on a dispute unless this is done as part of a ruling or judgment of the tribunal.  Dr Sayed Iqbal Mohamed is chairperson of the Organisation of Civic Rights and deputy chairperson of the KZN Rental Housing Tribunal. For advice, contact Pretty Gumede or Loshni Naidoo at 0313046451 or civicrights@ocr.org.zaw  Daily News