Durban- Fourteen schools from Durban are participating in the 38th annual Eskom Expo for Young Scientists International Science Fair held in Boksburg. Pupils from these schools are aiming for the top honour of Africa’s top young scientists. The schools Kloof High, Kloof Senior Primary, Ogwin High, Star College Boys High - Durban, Star College Girls  High - Durban, Rydalpark Secondary, Menzi High, Hillcrest High, Wiggins Secondary, Glenwood High, Manor Gardens Primary, Bonela Secondary, Alexandra High and Durban Girls High. The event will come to an end on Friday. Parthy Chetty, the Executive Director of the Eskom Expo, said pupils will be poised to showcase their innovative projects to a panel of judges and industry experts in the hope of bagging one of the top prizes - a scholarship to study in Germany sponsored by Siemens, as well as 16 full bursaries to study anywhere in South Africa from Eskom. More than 500 of Africa’s top future engineers, chemists, physicists, mathematicians and innovators are competing at the country’s largest school-level science fair for a chance to take home prizes worth more than R8.5 million. The event brings together the brightest young scientists from across South Africa and also friends from Lesotho, Namibia, Kenya, Nigeria, Ghana, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Tanzania and Mexico. These bright young minds have earned a spot at the Eskom Expo ISF after beating the competition at a series of regional finals. "For 38 years now, the Eskom Expo has been cultivating a passion for the sciences in young people, giving participants a fun and exciting way to explore science, technology, engineering, mathematics and innovation (STEMI),"Chetty said. The Eskom Expo for Young Scientists creates a platform for future scientists and engineers across South Africa, to establish a base for their future careers. "The competition is a great launch-pad for motivated youngsters keen to explore these fields and change not only their circumstances but their environments for the better. It is an ideal catalyst for unearthing the country’s brightest young minds in mathematics and science and also opens their eyes to the various options and many exciting career opportunities available in the extensive scientific world,” Chetty explained. Siemens CEO for Southern and Eastern Africa, Sabine Dall’Omo said, “Skills development and investing in our youth is imperative to grow innovation in Africa. As a global company with a strong local presence, we are proud to contribute to the development of Africa’s next generation. Innovation and positive societal transformation is in our corporate DNA.” Daily News