This comes after social philosophy PhD candidate Casper Lotter published an opinion piece on IOL on why a resettlement grant should be paid to former convicts. He said he had found that those in South Africa suffer from being stigmatised and shamed. “This has meant that all previous integration efforts have failed. Accepting the grant proposal would ease the transition and go some way to alleviating the problem.” Lotter said the grant proposal by the Correctional Services Department - which was rejected last year - was an innovative idea and should be taken seriously. “But the department has met a lot of opposition. Members of Parliament from the country’s biggest parties have rejected it outright. Many argued that a grant would be equivalent to ‘rewarding’ ex-offenders for their crimes.” Lotter said in his piece, South Africa’s runaway crime rates and unsustainable rates of re-offending were the direct results of the country’s inability to successfully integrate ex-offenders. A prisoner recently moved from Westville Prison to Waterval Correctional Services in Newcastle and, expecting to be released next year, said that as a father of two who would be unemployed on his release, returning to a life of crime was likely for him. “Having a criminal record is like being dead alive - there’s nothing you can do with it attached to your name. “I won’t be able to find a job and I won’t be able to live, and that makes me no different from someone who is dead.” The man had been jailed for five years for an armed robbery. “Having a grant set aside for ex-offenders is a good idea that should be revisited because we are taught skills behind bars, we go to school behind bars, but once we are out there is very little - if anything at all - we can do with a criminal record attached to our names,” the man said. Derrick Mdluli, of the Justice for Detainees Trust, said until government and the Correctional Services Department found a way for ex-prisoners to be able to apply for jobs without having their criminal records affect their chances of employment, rehabilitation programmes were a futile exercise. “There is no monitoring in place of ex-offenders, except for those out on parole. There is no monitoring to check on their progress and rehabilitation outside. “Until there is monitoring of rehabilitation, some sort of grant to keep them going outside is an idea to be revisited,” he said. Prisoners’ rights activist Golden Miles Bhudu said he made a presentation five years ago to the department for a system to industrialise prisons to raise a portion of the proposed grant money. “If prisoners are working while in custody or incarcerated and get a stipend, a portion of this can be deducted to go towards a collective trust that will provide for this proposed grant, because ratepayers will make a lot of noise if it’s a grant fully funded by the government alone,” he said. Daily News