Durban - A Metro policemen has been hailed a hero for pulling a woman out of a burning house in Isipingo, south of Durban on Tuesday night. Wesley Mariemuthoo,40, who resides in Lotus Park where the incident occurred was dealing with land invasions in the area when he saw smoke coming from a house in Lotus Drive. The homeowner Abraham Mzulwini,76, said his daughter Bonginkile Princess,37, was in the room alone when they noticed smoke coming out from the room window. He lives with his wife, daughter and two grandchildren. Mzulwini said they tried to open the door but by then the smoke had filled the house and fearing for their lives they left the house. Mzulwini said he could nothing to save his daughter as the fire was too intense so along with neighbours they broke the window and tried to fight the fire from the outside. By the time Mariemuthoo arrived, he found neighbours throwing sand and buckets of water at the raging inferno. Thick black smoke was coming out of a window and the room was well alight. Mariemuthoo then heard that someone was inside the house. "Nobody wanted to go inside. I ran in only to be greeted by thick smoke. I did not know who was inside or where the person was. I checked each room until I reached the one where smoke was coming out of," he explained. "I tried to open the door but it was jammed. I kicked the door twice and it opened. I could not see anything and I was finding it hard to breathe," he added. Mariemuthoo then went down on his hands and knees below the smoke line where he caught the glimpse of a person on fire. By then his brother Beaver Shanmogum and another policeman had followed him into the house. "I screamed out for a container of water and as I got it, threw the water on the body. The fire seemed to have gone off. I thought the person was dead until after a few moments she groaned and moved her legs," he said. Mariemuthoo then grabbed her by the legs and pulled her out of the house where curious onlookers had gathered. Shanmogum and Mariemuthoo then placed a wet blanket over her.  Shanmogum said they wanted to make her feel as comfortable as possible. "We calmed her down and waited for paramedics to arrive. Her entire body was burnt. We prayed for her, Shanmogum said. Princess was taken Prince Mshiyeni Memorial Hospital in a critical condition. Parboo Sewpersad, Durban Metro police spokesperson, said Mariemuthoo went beyond the call of duty. Sewpersad commended him for his act of bravery. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video 