That was until the weekend when dogs exposed the decomposed bottom half of a human body. Community Policing Forum (CPF) member Sibonelo Kheswa said the remains were found on Saturday afternoon by another resident, who saw dogs tugging at something in the bush behind the cottages. “He said he thought the way the dogs were behaving was strange, and because of the smell we had been living with, he became suspicious,” he said. The man went to inspect, and Kheswa was immediately called to the scene when he found the remains of a person. “Looking closer at the remains we saw that it was only the bottom half of a body, and it was decomposed down to the bone. The person was wearing a pair of black jeans, but we couldn’t tell whether it was male jeans or female jeans,” he said. Kheswa said he then phoned the police, who arrived with a search and rescue unit with sniffer dogs. “They (police) went further up into the bush close to where we found the body, and they found a skull and the bones of an arm. When we looked at the body, we could see that there were no foot bones,” he said. When the police left, Kheswa began contacting neighbouring CPFs, trying to find out if they were aware of any missing persons in their areas, but had no success. “We are shocked by the discovery. To think that we spent all this time thinking that it could have a been a dead dog that was causing the smell, but instead it was a person. I keep asking myself if this person was decapitated, or if it was the decomposition that led to his body and head being in different places, or if it was possibly the dogs that moved his head,” he said. A group of residents standing outside the cottages with Kheswa said they had had trouble sleeping on Saturday night after the discovery. “I slept with the TV on because I didn’t want to sleep in the dark. You can’t see something like that and continue to be okay. We lived our lives normally everyday without knowing that a body was right here,” said one of the residents, who would not be named. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said officers were investigating and had opened an inquest docket into the discovery. The body would be subjected to examination and tests to determine the cause of death. Investigations would also focus on trying to identify it. Daily News