Durban - A snake catcher said he received four reports of snake bite incidents in the city last week, which he said could have been avoided. Nick Evans, of the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, said two of the snake bites were from stiletto snakes and the other two from night adders. “The first Stiletto bite was in the Bluff, where a man was trying to scoop the snake into a shoe, to take it to the bottom of the garden for release. While doing this, the panicked snake bit him on his hand. After a few hours in hospital with mild swelling and pain, he discharged himself,” Evans said. “The second Stiletto bite happened how they typically happen- the snake was picked up, because Stiletto Snakes look relatively harmless, people pick them up. They regret it. The second patient had swelling and pain and spent 24 hours in hospital,” he continued. He said the other two bites occurred in a similar way. “A man in Westville picked up a Night Adder with a welding glove. He unfortunately didn't notice that the one glove had a hole in it. While holding the snake, it bit down on his hand in fear. On its third or fourth bite, it bit him through the hole in the glove,” he said. He said the man was lucky because it was a dry bite. “The second patient had tried pinning the snake down. He had initially thought that it was a House Snake. As he reached down to grab it, the Night Adder twisted and bit him on the thumb,” he said. “He experienced a mild burning sensation, but that was about it.” He said while the venom from both the species is not considered life-threatening, it can still cause an immense amount of pain and horrible tissue damage. How to avoid being bitten by a snake: 1. Do not touch any snake in the garden. 2. Do not try to kill a snake. 3. DO NOT TOUCH ANY SNAKE! At home, while on holiday, or at work. Even if you think you know what it is, don't! 4. Leave snakes alone and you'll be fine. 5. I understand accidents happen. For example, bites can happen if someone stands on a snake while walking in the bush. That's not the persons fault nor is it the snakes. It's an accident. The chance of that happening to you, though, are extremely slim. 6. If you're going to relocate a snake yourself, rather phone a snake-catcher first beforehand, or better, send a pic. The snake can be identified and you can react accordingly. A broom and bucket is gently the best method. 7. DO NOT try to tackle a large cobra or mamba yourself. It's always best to call a professional. 8. Like is the case with bites on dogs, I am starting to record cases of snake bites on people, in KwaZulu-Natal. I'll be working with doctors and hospitals on this. Daily News