Durban - The Department of Health (DOH) in KwaZulu-Natal have labelled attempts to set alight Addington Hospital as sabotage. Security has been tightened at all hospitals as a result of two sporadic fire incidents that broke out on different floors of Addington Hospital on Thursday. According to the DOH, the first fire broke out on the 7th floor at 7:30 am. The second fire occurred on the 10th floor at 14:30 pm. The fires occurred in the fire escape routes where piles of plastics full with garbage are kept for collection next to the lifts. The DOH stated that both fires appear to have happened in a similar fashion which raises a high suspicion of classifying them as related acts of sabotage. The DOH said the fires were contained by security guards and other hospital staff before they could cause any serious damaged to hospital infrastructure except for smoke residue on the walls. No casualties were reported and neither was hospital operations disrupted. Sibongiseni Dhlomo, the MEC for DOH in KZN, expressed a deep sense of shock and dismay over what he found. "There is something amiss here and a suspicion of an act of sabotage is not far-fetched. Both fires occurred on the fire escape routes in a similar fashion. We want the perpetrators to be arrested for gambling with peoples lives and compromising patient safety," Dhlomo said. The DOH said security will be tightened at all hospitals in the province. A case of arson has been opened at Point police station. Recently the Democratic Alliance KZN spokesperson on Health Dr Imran Keeka, MPL labelled the fire safety at Addington Hospital as a death trap. Keeka said the hospital was not fire compliant. "The biggest problem at Addington is that of corroded plumbing as a result of the hospital’s seaside location. This has, in turn, led to a malfunctioning of the fire sprinkler system. The DA has been advised that the poor fire compliance conditions at Addington will only be addressed after the completion of Dr Pixley Ka Isaka Sema Hospital. This is projected for late 2019/early 2020," Keeka said. Daily News