This is according to research presented at the Literacy Summit held in Durban recently. The eThekwini municipality-backed conference looked at ways to get more people reading and to address other problems like low literacy rates. Although South Africa has an adult literacy rate of 94%, according to Unesco (the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation), big class sizes mean that children with learning disabilities are left to struggle alone. At the conference, Education Department specialist Thembi Vilakazi, presenting the results of a group discussion, said classes of 60 pupils meant children with learning disabilities slipped through the cracks. Vilakazi said teachers also sometimes did not have the skills to identify children with learning disabilities. Although the department had policies to deal with the issue, the challenge was in their implementation, she said. In an article last year, education expert Dr Nicholas Spaull pointed out that the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study showed that eight out of 10 Grade 4 pupils could not read for meaning, and South Africa came last out of 50 countries that formed part of the research. Professor Labby Ramrathan, Director of the School of Education Studies at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said the Department of Basic Education’s “Education White Paper 6” focused on children with special needs. The problem with the paper was that there was a wide spectrum of disabilities and it was difficult for the policy to narrow it down to a specific one. He said it was difficult for teachers to detect pupils with barriers to learning in large classrooms. Most teachers had minimal to no support structures and resources to do so. But it was not only the responsibility of teachers to help children with learning disabilities. “At home, parents will notice the differences with the child,” Ramrathan said. There were early signs that children might have disabilities that could hinder their learning while they were very young, he said. These included not being able to speak, children isolating themselves from others and hearing problems. Scelo Bhengu, president of the Educators’ Union of SA, said teachers were well trained, but the problem was the large class sizes. He said the union had been fighting with the Education Department for a ratio of one teacher to 30 pupils. Bhengu said a teacher at an Inanda school had a class of 85 pupils. The added pressure of having to complete the school syllabus by June and use the rest of the year for revision made it harder for teachers to detect children with problems, who sometimes could barely read or write. These challenges resulted in some teachers becoming despondent, said Bhengu. He said the solution was for more classrooms to be built and more teachers to be hired - and there were many qualified teachers who were unemployed. Chandre Stuurman, of non-profit organisation Equal Education, said according to the department, more than 590000 children with disabilities were out of school and not getting adequate support. In some cases the children were getting pushed through the school system until they turned 14, after which they were sent to specialised schools, she said. Stuurman added that while it was not impossible to turn the situation around, it would be a mammoth task and needed a change in attitude from the government. Education Department spokesperson, Kwazi Mthethwa, said the department was facing many challenges and treated all equally. If they found a problem with a pupil, they roped in other departments, like health and social development, to assist. Daily News