Durban- Eight men have been arrested for removing steel bars that are bracing mechanisms to support underground municipal servitude tunnel structures in Montclair. Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, Durban Metro police spokesperson, said that on Friday evening Sergeant Shawn Jooste and Constable Msomi responded to a complaint in Coedmore, Yellowwood Park. A concerned member of the public reported suspicious activity on the road. "Upon arrival in Old Mill Road, a white Ford bakkie was found loaded with steel bars. It was parked in a bushy area. Eight men were apprehended on the scene. After some investigation, it was found that entry had been forced into a tunnel that carries wastewater pipes underground.  The men had been removing the steel bars that are a bracing mechanism to support the tunnel structure, Sewpersad said. These braces were being stripped and sold for scrap metal. Sewpersad said they found a receipt in the bakkie that led them to a scrap yard in Soupan Road, Clairwood. "A large quantity of steel braces were found already cut and packed in a shipping container. The receipt found was for 750Kg’s," he said. Montclair policeman Warrant Officer Tiger Ramsamy who assisted with the investigation is following up with the scrap yard to access their database with the suspect's ID number. Sewpersad said the amount of steel recovered did not tally with the single receipt found. "Three suspects identified as the ringleaders were arrested. The other five were hired as labour. During the interview they confirmed it was their second day at the site and were being paid R200 a day," Sewpersad added. Members from Waste Water attended the scene and assisted in recovering all the steel supports. eThekwini municipality wastewater Superintendent Mandla Mashinini stated that the damage runs into the millions of rands. Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, a KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson said the suspects will appear in the Wentworth Magistrates’ Court. A case of theft is being investigated by Montclair SAPS. Daily News 