Thembi Moloto said her 24-year-old son, whom she did not want named, was part of the SAPS recruitment drive. “He went for the fitness test, did fingerprinting, the psychometric test, a verbal interview and the filling in of forms and submitting of certificates - all at different intervals. “He became withdrawn when he heard that some of those who were part of the recruitment drive had gone to the police college and he had been left behind,” Moloto said. When she enquired at the uMlazi police station, she was told that a police circular sent by the national office instructed the province to consider only those who had diplomas. She said she was not told in what field of study the diploma should be. “I became suspicious because the explanation given to me did not hold water. My son had passed all the assessments and, yes, it could have been a case of numbers, but obviously it’s not. “In some cases recruits are sent to college in batches because of the huge numbers, but in this case all recruits left last year. Three weeks ago, there was another group of new recruits for this year. My son applied again, but this time he was not even called for assessment,” she said. A police source said a diploma was never one of the requirements for recruits. “I suspect that there was corruption in the handling of the process. It’s just a suspicion, but if evidence can be obtained then the matter would have to be dealt with by the anti-corruption unit. The young man had gone through all the assessment stages. “Remember, if you fail a stage you don’t get called for the next one, so the fact that he had gone through all means that he qualified,” said the source. He said from time to time people complained about the suspicious manner in which the process was handled. It was not clear how many recruits were required during the drive, and the police have not responded to the Daily News’s detailed questions about the recruitment processes and requirements, as well as this particular case. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said a diploma was not a requirement for the recruitment process. He said a qualification played to one’s advantage if there was a place or two to be filled. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said candidates with high scores were recruited. Francois Beukman, Parliament’s police portfolio committee chairperson, said Moloto should forward her concern to him or to the committee in writing so that it could be investigated. Daily News