Tafta had been in and out of court for the past three years and this month was granted a final eviction order by the Durban High Court against Glen Chapman. Chapman, though, has been sitting on his wheelchair holding a placard with the words, “Tafta abuse elderly + disabled”, outside the association’s John Conradie House in South Beach, where he has been living for five years. He said Tafta was kicking him out on October 31 and he was asking people to pray for him or assist him with accommodation. “This has all come about from a lie by the then manager, director of housing and then CEO from four years ago. “So if you see me in the street in my wheelchair, please support me,” he appealed. Chapman said he had been to several shelters, within the South Beach area, trying to secure accommodation but claimed he could not afford to travel further because of the cost and his physical condition. According to Tafta chief executive Femada Shamam, the association launched the eviction application because of the abusive manner in which Chapman interacted with other residents and staff. Chapman denied this. The eviction, said Shamam, came after an extensive three-year legal process which was argued in the Durban High Court in August. “The court granted an eviction order in favour of Tafta but it was suspended for three months to afford Chapman additional time to find alternative accommodation. This month, the court granted a final eviction order, directing Chapman to vacate Tafta’s premises,” Shamam added. She said his behaviour compromised the right to safety and security of other Tafta residents. “I will be homeless. Tafta is not telling people the full story. They served me with letters not to speak against the organisation,” said Chapman. Shamam said that, in response to the court order evicting him, Chapman displayed a notice outside Tafta’s premises that contained false and defamatory information about the association. “Despite Tafta’s repeated attempts to mediate with him, Chapman continued to make several unfounded allegations of abuse against the organisation both on social media and other public platforms,” Shamam added. Daily News