Durban - A man was sentenced to a fine of R3000 or 3 months imprisonment, for attempting to castrate his dog, in the Newlands Magistrates Court on Tuesday. Tanya Fleischer,  Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) Durban and Coast spokesperson, said Inspector Moloi had opened a docket in July 2016 against Nthuthuko Chaki who attempted to castrate his dog by placing elastic bands around the dog’s testicles. “The result of which was deep open wounds for the dog. The owner did not render any form of veterinary treatment for these wounds and therefore the wounds became infected, considerably swollen and started to rot,” Fleischer said. The dog was barely able to walk, sit or stand due to the excruciating pain. The SPCA estimated that he had been suffering for at least 2 weeks. Chaki was charged under section 2 of the Animals Protection Act 71 of 1962 and upon conviction was sentenced to a fine of R 3000 or 3 months imprisonment. In addition, said Fleischer, he has been declared unfit to own or be in charge of any animal for a period of 12 months from the date of conviction. “This is our first case in which an accused has been convicted of contravening act 71. We are pleased that the sentence was not suspended in any way, as is usually the case, and that a request for deferment was denied by the presiding officer. This was unprecedented for us and we are very proud to have brought this perpetrator to justice,” she said. Moloi has spent numerous days in court and personally appeared 13 times over the duration of the last 2 years and 2 months. The SPCA was immensely proud of their team and all of the Inspectors who work tirelessly on each and every case, ensuring that justice is served. “This archaic and cruel practice has been commonly used in rural/farm areas in the past and cases of this nature are rarely reported nowadays but are still occurring,” Fleischer lamented. Please report all acts or suspicions of cruelty to the SPCA on 031 579 6501. Daily News