Almost all schools in uMlazi were open from Monday with teachers and pupils hard at work. When the Daily News visited, they had one goal - to improve their matric pass rate. Department of Education spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said it provided support through boot camps, extra winter classes and material. He said it was now up to pupils to prepare. In order to increase the province’s pass rate by 10%, principals said no one was in a “comfortable space” as everyone was expected to pull up their socks and do more. Muntu Ntombela, principal of Menzi High School, which has a history of achieving a 100% pass rate, said both teachers and pupils were confident that the hard work throughout the year would pay off. “We are under pressure to maintain the standard. The dedication of teachers, pupils and the support of the parents as well as the good management of the school help us to be the school we are known for,” she said. At Zwelihle High School in U-section, not far from Menzi High School, teachers conducted extra classes even though the attendance was poor. Pupils also stayed after classes to help each other. The school catered to pupils from the surrounding informal settlement, where the unemployment rate was high, and where social ills such as crime and drugs affected the school. Despite its challenges, it achieved a 97% matric pass rate last year. Principal Mhlophe Msane said the school would achieve a 100% pass rate if parents were more involved in its running. “Our school does not have a science lab, but our pupils try through the assistance of our dedicated teachers. We are confident of good results. We pride ourselves on our ability to overcome our challenges,” she said. Pupils at Swelihle High School in C-section uMlazi said they were doing all they could to improve on last year’s 62% pass rate and the 43% pass rate in 2016. Principal Zandile Sithole said while there was little improvement last year, it was a move in the right direction. “This was a bad school. We now have assistance from Menzi High School teachers who conducted classes on a regular basis in their free time. We want to uplift the performance of schools in the area, district and the province. What makes a good school is community involvement and as soon as we have that we are optimistic of excellent results,” said Sithole. Other districts were also trying to help each perform better by holding holiday classes. Schools under the Phoenix and KwaMashu circuits, for example, hosted the Mafukuzela Gandhi CMC Distinctions and Hola Programme for pupils from disadvantaged schools where parents could not afford private tuition for their children. Daily News